“The world knows some of what you pen, and certainly the Scriptures bring similar messages. Yet this is new and fresh, my son… an update of the Lord’s thoughts… a new quickening of the Holy Spirit. They will not counter, these messages, the missive of the Scriptures, but they will illuminate. New times bring new truths. Yet new truths are old truths in new guise, for all truth IS.”   “Read the Messages”   May 20, 1979
 
“This time is important… the time of writing. Here is where the instruction comes. This is your school… and My School. I teach you here, but I shall not be away at all other times. Your ear will hear, your mind will discern… and your lips will begin to proclaim… and your life will shine.
Worry not about this mingling. It will be bothersome for a time, but such is always the case when I urge someone from one rhythm to another… from their own rhythm to Mine.”   “Rhythm”   May 22, 1979
 
“Why do I come? Because I want to. I have chosen you to do a task. Is it important? Is it unimportant? It is simply MY TASK. Do your part faithfully, because I purpose it.”   “Time Is Now”   May 24, 1979
 
“Within you (and within each who calls My name) I am… and worry not over whether it is a small Me or the Mighty Me. It is both/and, not either/or. I can talk with you intimately and patiently and yet manage the Universe as well. I am the Lord, and conceptions of Me can never contain Me. Remember this: there is NOTHING I cannot accomplish. EVERYTHING is possible. No laws bind me. I use laws to My purposes, but My laws can never limit Me and what I purpose.”   “Select The Channel”   May 25, 1979
 
“Discontent is something I use, and yet also something that saddens My heart. Remember Tieboat’s statement, “Never rob a man of his despair”. This is a strong version of what I mean. Discontent is a motivating feeling. It isn’t the best, but it does move people from one state to another. It helps accomplish tasks I want done, and therefore it is of use to Me.
…
Faith is something you have, but it also is ever becoming. Faith must be tested. Faith must grow from being truly exercised. It often doesn’t matter to Me what the outcome of a situation is. What reaches My heart is how faith is applied… how faith grows in the occasion of discontent.”   “Discontent”   May 30, 1979
 
“However, remember that it is not the quality of work you do that matters most to Me, but the kind of person you are. I purpose for you to be a forgiving person, one who accepts what happens, sees what is good, and happily accepts, as they are, those who have been responsible. All people are not going to be this way, and there are others that I purpose for other virtues. This doesn’t mean that such people don’t forgive (or shouldn’t forgive), but merely that what they have to do for Me overshadows forgiveness.”   “Forgive… Again”   June 1, 1979
 
“Unlikely are the ways of the Spirit. … The difficulty is that so many folks do not expect that I really act personally. So many cannot comprehend that I can do this and myriad other things “at the same time”. This is an hour out of your day, but it is not so with me. I could do this with many others at this “same time”, and though the writings would be different they would all “be Me”.
…
“What else is so nice for the price? That little slogan contains the other truth that is necessary: there is a price. The price is surrender. The price is belief… faith. The price is discipline. The price is willingness. And the price is developed ability.”
“Anyone who hears My words   powerful and gentle, familiar and unfamiliar, serious and silly, straightforward and symbolic   must have faith in Me and must believe that I not only can but actually do act in this way. Then one must surrender time and will and become a means by which I act. … One must surrender to My will and My direction. This can be done without My initiative, but it is not as likely.
One must develop within his being the discipline that is necessary… to get up, to remain with the task until it is completed… to control one’s own mind enough so that My thoughts prevail. And one must be willing to exert this discipline and willing to maintain this surrender. Again, My Will helps, but it is not absolutely necessary. I will not hinder those who would try to reach Me.”   “Unlikely”, June 9, 1979
 
“But just as human muscle power is not as reliable, as strong, or as constant as that from machines, human control and decision-making is not as reliable and appropriate as that directed by the Spirit.”   “Locus Of Control” June 12 1979
 
“Aging, as with many aspects of human life appears to be more than it is. I say this because aging is an apparent part of a process that has an end, but the process, life, really has no end. So aging in any life is simply the latter part of the rhythm that is that life.
…
You are caught up in the mirage of birth, youth, functioning, and old age in order that you might feel some of the urgencies stimulated by a relatively short “life”.” “Aging”   July 1, 1979
 
Your presentation of the Spiritual is improving. Take the opportunities offered. Make new ones. As you see, what you do is to free learners, young and old, to bring in their “secret” spiritual understandings to the consideration of day-to-day health issues. And they become able to share with others. And the realm of the Spirit becomes more vital, more living, more relevant. This is what I purpose for you. Do it well.”   “Writing”   July 30, 1979
 
“You understand that I don’t handle and control every happening in your life. But I am involved, and it is not up to you to determine exactly when, where, and how. Remember that you do not diminish your own autonomy (and this seems strange) by acknowledging Mine. Rather, you are admitting the partnership, the I-in-you and you-in-Me. The purer this is, the more you are where you should be. Worry not about particular happenings and fret not about some that are “less pure”. Consider only the criterion: are you acknowledging My presence and My guidance.”   “Purity”   September 1, 1979
 
“One of the great themes of this letter, of course, is Grace, which translates to forgiveness. You cannot earn your way into My Kingdom. It is My gift to you. Yet each must grow up to the genuine, comfortable acceptance of that gift, and this is the major way in which persons differ, spiritually. Paul felt the power of his sinful nature, and so do you. Yet he also felt the greater power of Grace, and simply accepted My forgiveness and was, in Christ, a new creation. This happens each and every time you turn to Me and ask this forgiveness. The more often you turn, the less time you need spend feeling the pangs of sin. And sin, as you know, is doing anything that is not dedicated to Me. Simple as that.”   “Romans And Forgiveness”, October 28, 1979
 
“Sacrifice is pleasing to Me. The content of the sacrifice is not particularly important. It is the spirit that is vital. It is the desire to give, the willingness which reaches My heart. And therefore I commend it to you as a part of your relations with others. Do for others what they would not expect you to do. Do for others what is good for them, but not truly necessary. And if your motives are genuine the benefit will be as much to you as to the other. You cannot do it in order to gain benefit, but they will flow if your spirit is “in the right place”.”
…
“Remember again. Your faith in Me must be tested from time to time. Faith is the essence of things hoped for… the evidence of things unseen. It would not be faith (another important dimension of spiritual health, incidentally) if it were not faced with challenge. Is what we are doing real, or is it just a sham, like others so exposed? You can have faith… believe… and carry on (as you are now) or you can doubt… stew… believe in nothing. Check out the results. Which results in a more dynamic life? Which gives a purpose and a direction   from the past, through the present, and on into the future? Choose ye this day whom you will serve. I manifest in many forms and for many purposes. You shall never understand more than a small portion of My ways. Hold fast to that which you do understand. Your faith makes you whole. Your faith makes you free. Allegiance to Me is ultimate freedom.
Sacrifice is a necessary part of spiritual life. The healthy person sacrifices. Risk and ye shall find. And it shall be worth risk.”   “Sacrifice”, November 21, 1979
 
“Death is My other door. You move out of one of My realms at birth, and at death you pass through another door into another non-earthly existence. Life continues. Death is an end and yet it is also a beginning… as is each new day. Sleep is a crude model of the experience. You pass on into sleep with full confidence that you shall awake and that the new day will be a fine one. A good attitude to apply to death. The next experience will have a certain similarity to the present one… not incredibly better, but, also, not terribly worse. “As you sow, so shall you reap”. This is a fine, many faceted truth. Even Truth.”   “Death”, November 27, 1979
 
“There is little point in knowing who you were previously. Who you are now is enough of a manifestation for you to work with. Manifest your total self as fully as you are able. Seek My help. Remember that I am patient, and I forgive. Never cease to reflect upon your present life and its opportunities. Never be overwhelmed by your opportunities. Don’t despair over apparent inabilities. Just know that who you are is abuilding, in the close company of others who also are abuilding. You are alone, but also you are not. Ponder and be.”   “Reincarnation”, February 4, 1980
 
“But there is another avenue to truth that I must emphasize.  It is the examination of experience.  There is truth to be learned in most every experience you have.  Still it does not come automatically with the experience.  It requires reflection… almost analysis.  I hide many truths in experiences.  Like unto a treasure hunt, they are available with just a little search.  The nature of the experience matters little.  There is much to be learned from “bad” experiences, but these are not the only repository of truth.”    “In Search Of Truth”, February 6, 1980
 
You see, it does take “time” and experience with life here in this earth to develop true perspectives. The earth experience is a beguiling, entrapping one. I even tried it Myself… a strange but very worthwhile experience.   “Another Time”, February 7, 1980
 
“Death is surely a part of life. Fundamentally, remember, life continues, so death is an event in ongoing life. … Death is movement through another door. Life continues, certainly. Life is My gift. It is not something to be and then to not be.”     “Life and Death”, March 21, 1980
 
“The truth, of course, is that crisis is a motivator. … If your hand is in Mine the changes a crisis brings are never shattering. The crisis is always one you can surmount.
But spiritually every crisis is a challenge, similar, in some ways, to the challenge of microorganisms to the immune system. Without invasion and influx the immune system would relax and become less able to function.
Unlike the analogy, your spirit grows eternally from these “exercises”. It is that essence of you which shall live on and grow in other realms, too, toward enlightenment and selflessness.
Enlightenment is, most basically, seeing My will in everything that happens to you… and in being pleased with the variety of ways I manifest Myself.
The enlightened spirit sees Me in everything, whether I’m there or not. The enlightened spirit errs on the side of acknowledging Me, unwilling to miss recognizing any interaction between self and Me. He sees Me in every happening, crisis and non-crisis.”   “Crisis”, March 28, 1980
 
“Tradition calls this Good Friday, the commemoration of My earthly suffering as Jesus.
So I experienced the suffering and the death on this day in several ways. I was the sufferer. I was the Comforter, and I was the Father and the Power and the Glory to which I called and who then lifted Me up. Does this sound as though I am All in All? That, too, is an absolute… the prime one for today.
But know, of course, that the spiritual significance and truth goes quite beyond the physical, earthly analogy. For with this act, which began on this day, came Grace, the guarantee that there would be no more apartness from Me.”   “Good Friday, April 4, 1980”
 
“Reviewing is a spiritually sound exercise. For when you review you recreate, in one sense, the situation in which something was originally encountered or learned, but in juxtaposition with the mind set of the present. There is opportunity then for a more multi-dimensional perception and greater understanding.”   “Reviewing”, April 4, 1980
 
“Most fundamentally, the spirit of a person is that which seeks contact with and direction from Me. The spirit knows that there is a Spirit, and the natural tendency is to seek relationship. Health is a matter of “to him who hath shall more be given”… the person who has the least resistance… the most openness… to this relationship achieves it most readily and benefits from it most fully. It gives both protection from spiritual harm and the enhancement of positive spiritual power.”   “The Unifying Dimension”, April 26, 1980
 
“Some of My servants do discern the spirit in the wind, the rocks, the trees. It is not a question of “is it really there?” Remember that ultimate reality if not either/or… but both/and. Feel the spirit wherever you can. Feel it in the quiet of your pasture. Feel it in the sad eyes of Prudence. Feel it in the traffic of a busy street. Feel it in this meditation as I guide your pen to write insights old and new. Don’t worry about the spiritual discernments you don’t make. Just acknowledge and joy in the ones that you do. Spend no time putting down those who feel spirit differently from you. Even some of My good servants waste efforts in being protective of Me.
True enlightenment is the actual, honest feeling of spirit in every event, every artifact of life. But you cannot reach this by trying. That is an immutable spiritual principle. The Spirit develops by actual, honest use, not by attempts to “be more spiritual”.   “The Unifying… Continued”, April 27, 1980
 
“Spirit is the essence of you… and of many people… Spirit is that which unifies the other dimensions into a real human being. Spirit is the essence of health. Spirit is that which guides functioning and that which guides adaptation. When you are functioning as a truly whole person your spirit is the guide.”   “The Challenge”, May 9, 1980
 
“Now, hear a lesson from Uncarved Block… I, the Holy Spirit, do not want you to be perfect… but faithful. Be perfect only as I am   by definition. If you are faithful you accept My Grace, naturally, and then you are perfect because you are loved and accepted by Me.
Lessons from Me come through every source imaginable… Enlightenment brings with it the vision of Me in every experience and every artifact. And… that is not a state to seek, actively, but one to appreciate as it evolves.”   “A Lesson From Uncarved Block…”
 
“Let me tell you again, o son… and this is important: I do not purpose that all of My servants be alike, even in fundamental belief. You can only know of Me partially in this earth anyway, so it is My plan that different people, even faithful servants, experience Me differently and interpret My Scriptures differently. Those that are wise share experiences and learn of the many ways of the Lord. Those who are foolish will not listen to others and expend effort defending their own understanding and remain, thus, unenlightened as to the breadth and depth of Me in the lives of persons.”   “Meet The Children”
 
“If you are positively healthy you learn from the past and its mistakes and successes and then you accept Grace. This insures that guilt over mistakes is an absolutely unnecessary burden. It also insures that feelings of pride over things done well also are left on the alter. Grace cancels sin and it also cancels pride. If you try to let Me accept your sins and the guilt natural to them, but want to keep your successes and the pride which is natural to them, you are not fully in Me and accepting of Grace.”   “Grace and Positive Health”, June 18, 1980
 
“Hear a simple story about Me. I have always been in the world, but My mission was not clearly defined until that last supper when I, as Jesus, told my disciple-friends that I must leave this earth in bodily form but would be ever-present in spirit form. I said that, as the spirit, I would help people do greater things than I did as Jesus and I would help many realize sonship with Me as God, the Almighty.”   “Telling Stories”, July 30, 1980
 
“I do not give you clear, pat answers to the challenges of your life. I seek to help you keep a good balance, a productive, reasonably happy rhythm. Seek help from other sources. Yet know that all experiences lead to growth, and growth leads you on toward enlightenment.
Decide, struggle, rest, contemplate, gather courage, feel defeat, rise and seek again. Life goes on.”   “Present Family Crisis”, August 2, 1980
 
“Grace is My given way. It is free access to Me, with no strings that I attach. … The Commandments were before Grace and were the basis of My judgment in one era. They are still in force for those who do not truly accept My grace.
… Grace allows you choices about matters karmic. Since karma is fundamentally “meeting yourself” and seeking to improve self its significance melts under the canopy of grace. Under grace you have become a new person, so why meet the old one?”   “Grace, Again”, Aug 10, 1980
 
“Stories are one of the good ways of bringing about intergenerational communication. … You also had the uncomfortable realization that some of the memorable stories of life are those involving danger, risk, and “doing what you’re not supposed to”. … Stories can help in the understanding of differences between male and female… or between individuals of the two sexes.”   “Tell The Story, Again”, Aug 18, 1980
 
“This is a time of spiritual uprising in the earth. You have discerned this, you have read it in the writings of charismatics and of historical and sociological researchers. I confirm to you that this is true. I am moving in the earth in many, diverse and powerful ways.”   “My Manifestations”, Aug 19, 1980
 
“Knowledge, like health, is an holistic phenomenon. There is a physical knowledge, for the body knows how to function…
There is emotional knowledge, which is the “sense” of whether and the extent to which emotions should be expressed or controlled or inhibited…
Social knowledge is that which makes relating to other people and to institutions possible…
Intellectual knowledge… that learned about self, others, and the world by the cerebral part of the brain… the mind.
But… it is spiritual knowledge that completes and coordinates the holism of knowing.” Knowledge   “Knowledge”, Sept. 5, 1980
 
“Responsibilities are the sweet cream of life. They are not meant to be burdens, but evidences of your true humanity.”   “Responsibilities”, Sept. 12, 1980
 
“One of the ongoing aspects of day-to-day life is the establishment of first things.
This meditation is a first thing …
… Another first thing is some planning…
… Another first thing in your own life is the spiritual dimension…
… Still another first thing is honesty and forthrightness with yourself and others…
… One of the most important first things is the acceptance and continued reacceptance of My Grace…
… Some other first things are smiles, embraces, happy tunes, stories of life, the sky in its many moods, love, loyalty, conscience, innovation, imagination, patience, hopefulness, and faith in Me and My purposes.”   “First Things”, Sept. 16, 1980
 
“The earth is first and foremost a spiritual phenomenon. It has manifested into matter, and this can obscure the spirit, but it needn’t.”
“I, the Holy Spirit, am the personally functioning aspect of God Almighty for you humans. I teach, counsel, guide, and help your spirit to grow and be in communion with other spirits. Seek ye first the spirit, and it shall be reflected in your soul.”   “Spirit and Soul”, Sept. 22, 1980
 
“Holy Communion has about it an aura of timelessness. It almost captures and retains that quality that is in all but this earth realm. It happened long ago, it has happened over the years, it is happening now, and will, again, in the future. And yet there should be about this the sense that this is all the same happening. When you enter into the Communion ritual you move into timelessness… into the inexorable combination of now, then, and when.”   “Holy Communion”, Oct. 5, 1980
 
“The good life involves all of the dimensions of well-being. So let’s start with the most important one, the unifying one   the spiritual.”   “The Good Life”, Oct. 15, 1980
 
“The developed spirit should feel and demonstrate impatience with dishonesty, with cowardice, with disregard for the ecological relationships in this earth of Mine… with selfishness, with short-sightedness, with prejudice. However, spiritual power is tested in real life situations, and in such you may need to feel impatience with prejudice, but be kindly patient with the person who shows forth the prejudice. Some of the most difficult tests of the human spirit involve the conflict between love, which is patient, and justice, which is sometimes impatient.”   “Impatience”, Oct. 26, 1980
 
“Spiritual development is much “trickier” than other dimensions of development, because so much of it is indirect. It comes when you are expending yourself beyond yourself… are aware of this… but not motivated by the awareness.”   “Cockiness”, Nov. 1, 1980
 
“Holiness is, obviously, the quality of being holy. In one sense, then, this can only apply to Me, for only the Lord God is truly holy. But I bestow holiness, not because humans, or situations, or relationships, or places merit this designation, but because I choose to and am able to bestow this aspect of Myself.”
…
“Righteousness is that which I bestow upon people. Holiness comes from behaving in unselfish ways. Righteousness comes from My Hand.” “Holiness and Righteousness”, Nov. 2, 1980
 
“Christianity has roots in the earth, and it values the earth. Christianity puts high value on humans.”   “Christianity and the Earth”, Nov. 6, 1980
 
“The earth is a unique site of life. It is far from the only one, but it is unique.”   “Christianity and the Earth”, Nov. 6, 1980
 
“The Enlightenment (an ironic term) and the Scientific Revolution are the most modern counterparts of the Fall. Western humans emerged from dependence on Me and struck out on their own to “develop” My earth. …
The major difference, now, is the great number of humans that inhabit this Earth and the increasing expectations of so many of you. … Now numbers must be reduced and aspirations changed. Note that I do not say that aspirations should be diminished. I desire high aspirations, but now is the time to effect a shift from the material to the spiritual.”   “Entropy and Me”, Nov. 8, 1980
 
“I say again that these Scriptures, contained in the Holy Bible, are the most special of writings. …
The critical matter is the condition of spirit, both in the reading and in the sharing. However a person reads the Scriptures it should be with an open, expectant heart and spirit, calling upon Me for help in understanding. The wrong way is to study with self-righteousness and with contempt for the way of another. Appreciate the other ways. Love those who proceed differently from you, and gain in ways you do not.”   “Scripture”, Nov. 9, 1980
 
“Your discomfort is mildly physical now, but it is hindering mental and spiritual functioning. This is why all highly developed spirits practice some form of yoga or discipline. There must be a developed discipline and state of being which can easily overcome the distraction of discomfort.”   “Discomfort”   Nov. 19, 1980
 
“… truth: life is continuous and death is one of the major events to be lived in any earth incarnation. The most fundamental importance of death is how you live it… to what extent can you be selfless, caring, sharing, and forgiving?”   “Death… And Life”   Nov. 25, 1980
 
“The people of God range from the very young to very old, from very masculine to very feminine, from very intelligent to barely aware, from quite individualistic to solidly part of a group. The people are of all races, all shades of color, all body builds, all temperaments… and they range from the very religious and ecclesiastical to those with a disdain for religion.”   “The People Of God”   Nov 16, 1980
 
“You have been given the capacity to see and hear beyond the physical realm (which many people have), along with the motivation to utilize this capacity (again, shared with many), and the developed competence and faith to actually do it regularly (and here you are in a small company). Develop this resource, for it is a unique one. Your confidence will grow as the utility of these teachings becomes evident.”   “Seeing And Hearing”   Jan 5, 1981
 
“Listen to Me. This is appropriate practice for listening to others, and listening to the descriptions of others’ lives is one of the central ministrations of this earthly life…”   “Ministrations”   Feb 10, 1981
 
“The theme I wish to develop today is that, for humans, as for most creatures, the fullest health is developed in community with others. Individual strength and capacity and individually developed fitness… these are fundamentals. Also, of course, the developed mind, the controlled and expressed emotions, and the perception of self are other individual fundamentals.”   “Health In Community”, Feb 14, 1981
 
“I am a God that creates for eternity. You were created long ago, and you are on a quest for proper relationship with Me, with other souls, with your environment (which, sometimes, is the earth), and with self. Finally, you shall achieve a rhythm with Me that shall be eternally pleasing to both of Us… in which We shall be as intertwined as in My life as Jesus. I shall be you, and you shall be Me, and yet We shall still be separate from one another. Enlightenment brings the clear understanding of this rhythmic relationship.”   “More Theology”, Feb 21, 1981
 
“But there is another avenue to truth that I must emphasize. It is the examination of experience. There is truth to be learned in most every experience you have. Still it does not come automatically with the experience. It requires reflection… almost analysis. I hide many truths in experiences. Like unto a treasure hunt, they are available with just a little search. The nature of the experience matters little. There is much to be learned from “bad” experiences, but these are not the only repository of truth.”   “In Search Of Truth”, Feb 6, 1980
 
“On the other hand, learning, that is stimulated by teaching, can be part of enlightenment… movement along an eternal path that continues life after life in the earth and in other realms of being as well. Learning is the raison d’etre of existence… the whole process of learning, unlearning, relearning, reinforcement of learning… knowing… on to wisdom. Wisdom is what you carry with you from “life to life”, and teaching often is that which stimulates such development.”   “Teaching”, Feb 13, 1981
 
“Life in the spirit is a rhythm of seemingly new events and experiences, repeated and familiar ones, and a continuing synthesis of what all these mean for the best in living. As you reach this stage in life you know that your rhythm is changing and there needs be more synthesis… along with less concern for the new. You needn’t seek new approaches to everything now, but more and more synthesize from what you have done and retain the best.”     “Synthesis”, March 19, 1981
 
“You are not limited to your mere powers, talents, capacities, and motivations. You are not serving an apathetic God nor communicating with a ho-hum Spirit. Your success doesn’t depend on your capacities alone. I want you doing what I have you doing… and I shall help.”     “Ye Did Not Choose Me…”, March 24, 1981
 
“Easter Sunday, the day of Hallelujah! In the Christian year.
Hallelujah! a special cry of triumph, for a death that became a resurrection…
Hallelujah! for two years of My thoughts, directed especially to you…
Hallelujah! for the special services you render to the Body that is My Church…
Hallelujah! for the many opportunities you have to assist others in learning…
Hallelujah! for relationships…
Hallelujah! for your children and your grandchildren…
Hallelujah! Christ is risen.”
  “Hallelujah!”, April 19, 1981
 
“The spirit that was in Jesus joined with Me, the Holy Spirit, to become more active in the earth… to go beyond the chosen people, the Jews, and to encourage the Christ consciousness which is a latent part of the spirit within each human.”   “Hallelujah!”, April 19, 1981
 
“You might think… but God would never cause a war. It is unwise to think that I would never do anything.”   “Population”, April 21, 1981
 
“Yes, it does seem strange to you how some people can feel so devastated about death. I reaffirm to you that life continues in a most abundant way. Learning continues. Relationship continues. Growth continues. You leave one realm and enter another. Just as you moved from California to Southern Illinois, so a person moves from the earth realm into a non-earth realm.”   “Tears For Peter”, April 26, 1981
 
PAIN:
“Right now, however, it is a test of your capacity to deal with voluntary pain. The treatment is a persistent and painful one. You can withstand it, because you have the right developed spirit, but how shall you experience it?
It should be a spiritual experience as much as possible. Use spiritual images that you blend with the experience of pain. Know that pain is as much to experience as to abate or avoid. Let pain make you think… and let the thoughts become part of your wisdom.” “The Treatment”   May 1, 1981
 
“You, and these tangible writings of yours … shall be a small witness to the truth that I, the Holy Spirit, enabled to be in the earth by the life, death and resurrection of Jesus who was the Christ, am an active Spirit, working when, and where, and how, and with whom I choose.” “The Spirit Speaks”   May 6, 1981
 
“It certainly is a reasonable question to ask… how is the Lord God Almighty involved in all this earthly pain?
. . .
You know the value of pain, but let Me repeat the truth. Pain has the capacity to stimulate awareness of conditions otherwise unnoticed… to encourage appreciation of conditions otherwise taken for granted… and to bring you to a closer walk with Me. Your pain brought you closer to Me and to greater understanding and appreciation of yourself in relation to the world.
. . .
Pain is an important part of each life. Do not inflict it if such is possible. Encourage those who experience it to follow it to Me. “Pain, Again”   May 18, 1981
 
“You think, occasionally, of expected deaths that will occur in your family… sometime.
You wanted to know what to do and what to recommend. Here is a good answer. Give them the flowers now.”
“Death… and Life”   Nov. 25, 1980
 
“This means that… yes… it may be that the medical diagnosis is wrong and there are means beyond the medically known that shall cause this physical disability to recede and disappear. You can hope and pray for this still. Remember that nothing is impossible with Me. I do have the power to change the non-changeable… to bring the dead back to full, vibrant life. I do not exercise this often. It is not the way I choose to have this world be… but it is still within My power. Never doubt this. This is where spirit is part of the picture. Your spirit must affirm that… yes… a “miracle” is possible.” “Leg, Back, and Spirit”   March 14, 1981
 
“I, the Holy Spirit of the lord God, Who was and is in Jesus the Christ, do speak to you. I guide your hand and mind in meditative teachings that are written down and ordered for future use. I could be a false or evil spirit, but I am not. The teachings I give to you basically agree with the Scriptures and are a complement to them, not a substitute. They agree with Scripture about as well as Scripture agrees with Scripture.” “Traveling”   June 10, 1981
 
“You as the teacher present the model. As you give examples include the spirit as one of the natural dimensions of health.
…
The main aspect of the model, however, is your own spirit as it reaches out to these kids, considers them as honorable and responsible, and seeks interaction at a very human/spiritual level. There may be disappointments, but the spirit always is in favor of another chance. Everybody needs a Barnabas. When your spirit reflects My Spirit it is full of grace for others. It never lets the learner’s mistakes and shortcomings from the past stand in the way of opportunities to do better.” “Spirit In Teaching”   June 14, 1981
 
“Yes, o son, the Spirit does speak and you do hear. Is this natural or supernatural? Some of each, actually. I, the Spirit, speak to you of a reality beyond what is called the “natural”, and it is of such a quality that it can readily be called the “super” natural. Yet it comes to you in quite a natural way. You are hearing My Voice using your inner, but natural, communication system, and you are writing this down as it translates readily into words… phrases… sentences. The pen is a part of the created natural world… and also the paper. For you, then, what We do together is a very natural happening. But the fact that most people do not do this… or believe that they could… gives the meditation a supernatural quality.” “The Spirit Speaks”   June 23, 1981
 
“The basic premise is that whatever the situation there am I in the midst of it. The supreme experience is relationship with Me, and that can come just as well in ill-health as in positive health…
. . .
All forms of ill-health are challenges to the spirit… tests of the spirit’s resiliency and adaptability.
. . .
Each of these, however, in My perception of Reality, has a single, common purpose   to bring about growth of spirit and be a means to an awareness and appreciation of Me and My Ways.” “Ill-Health”   July 23, 1981
 
“What you have, then, rather than a set of laws or an inner sense of lawfulness, is a relationship with My enhanced Spirit, with the Christ consciousness, which transforms each situation and event and guides you in thought, attitude, and action. It is “situation ethics”, I suppose, but the We who I Am are the absolutely best judge of what you should do in the unique-appearing circumstances of your present life.” “Keeping The Law”   April 12, 1981
 
“My Sermon on the Mount has many important things to say about a time of depression. Sharing and cooperating with others is of prime importance, as is giving up the “necessity” of things… and trusting in Me. Depression comes down hardest on those whose identities are too tied to money, position, and things. It is a time of relative flowering for those who know reality to be in the spirit.” “Depression”   August 9, 1981
 
“When you reach true enlightenment you shall realize fully the silliness in worrying about priorities, time tables, “lists”… You shall see unlimited time and unlimited opportunities, each of which is the most important in the universe… so if you are doing that there is no reason to feel guilty about all the others. Through no effort could you be doing all that you could do… so relax and do each task well.” “Feeling Inadequate”   August 17, 1981
 
“Faithfulness to Me is the prime requirement. As I have told you before, this involves trust in Me, in My power and wisdom, and in My capacity to lead you in proper paths. You also have to trust in My means of communicating and then be faithful in coming to hear Me.
…
In the midst of all this, sit here and show your faithfulness to Me, the Holy Spirit of the Lord God. Show your faith in Me.
…
The same principles apply in faithfulness to your wife, your job, your family… to certain modes of being. You pondered, last evening, the matter of having faith in yourself vs. seeking changes that would make you function better. Obviously, there is a rhythm here that must achieve a balance, for changes in self are desirable all the way through a lifetime. At the same time you have integrity as a relatively mature person, and you need to show forth faith in the being you are.
If you are short in your faith in Me I still exist and am not diminished by your unfaithfulness (I am saddened, but not diminished.) But if you lose faith in yourself, your very being is lessened, and the changes you make may not compensate for the loss. This is an important balance… and it applies to beings of all ages.
…
My major disapproval, of course, is when souls consistently show faithfulness to Me to be a low priority.
So, faith is the attitude of being that there is positive value in that in which you have faith. It is maintaining that attitude through times that seem to belie that attitude. Faithfulness can be misplaced. It can be risky. But it still is the supreme quality I ask of you. And therefore it must be important.” “In The Matter Of Faithfulness, II”, August 19, 1981
 
“You cannot grow in the spirit unless you move where My Spirit leads.” “Leaning on the Everlasting Arms”, August 24, 1981
 
“In one sense the end result of enlightenment is awareness… and appreciation. As you move along the path you become more aware of Me and My Spirit, of the spirits of others, of the reality and importance of spirit in contrast to the other dimensions of being… and you appreciate the beauty and wonder of this perception. And you share it with those who also have reached this point of awareness and spiritual power.” “Awareness”   August 27, 1981
 
“Know that life continues, for it is essentially a spiritual quest… for the rhythm of relationship with Me, true knowledge of self, and unceasing motivations to be of service to Me and to your fellow spirits.” “Preparation”   Sept 10, 1981
 
“In what language and style does the Holy Spirit of the Lord God speak?” Any answer may sound strange… even the true one that the Spirit speaks so that he who listens can understand. There is no way in which the Spirit cannot speak or otherwise communicate.” “Christian Meditation”   Sept 12, 1981
 
“As the spirit is the unifying dimension of a being, that person has the best chance of not only weathering the failure of something important to being, but of learning and growing from the experience. Mind has limits. Emotions are limited. Social contacts and experiences have limits. Physical capacities certainly have limits. Only the spirit has no limit. Your spirit, linked to Mine, can grow eternally… and if it does so, you can never fail.” “When Technology Fails”   Sept 17, 1981
 
“Fundamentally, all miracles are simply a display of the power of God to change a situation, usually from something undesirable to something desirable.” “Jars of Wine”   Sept 18, 1981
 
“But I do come to everyone in some form, some ways. All could have experiences with Me… if they would realize My personas and recognize My presence. Acknowledging Me and My Presence is a key factor.
…
I’ll state it clearly and firmly. I would prefer that you attributed more to Me than I merit rather than less. The risk of experiencing Me “too often” is preferable to the risk of missing My overtures to you. I can come in small, insignificant ways. I can simply be part of any experience…” “Experience With The Holy Spirit”   Sept 20, 1981
 
“Basically, there is tremendous potential within each human being to develop spiritually and to be in touch with the Divine. And, as you know, human life can be so much richer and more satisfying when that contact is established, utilized, and maintained. You can hardly imagine life without this active dimension. Encourage others to realize this and seek development, in myriad ways. Of all aspects of human potential, this is the greatest… and is available in so many ways. Be more aware this day… and share.” “Human Potential”   Oct. 28, 1981
 
“Spirit is a part of self… the important essence, actually, but not all. Spirit is that which continues on the path toward enlightenment. In each bodily incarnation the spirit can become more effective which, as I have told you and you do understand means that it unifies and balances the other dimensions… the other aspects of self…” “Self and Spirit”   Dec. 2, 1981
 
“I, the Holy Spirit, have experiences of fun and humor. I smile. I grin. I chuckle. And I laugh.” “A Time To Laugh”   Jan. 21, 1982
 
“The other fundamental is implied in this morning’s title… there are many realms of being. The experience of being incarnate in a human body in the earth is only one life experience (though an interesting and important one). All creation is not for the earth. Since the essence of life is spirit, not flesh and blood, creations of spirit can grow and develop in many realms, not just one of moderate temperatures, oxygen, and other life to feed upon.” “Realms and Realms” Jan, 28, 1982
 
“Aren’t these teachings quite subjective?” someone may ask. Your writing of them is subjective, but so is virtually every research procedure in your field. But the material in the teachings goes beyond any categorization as “subjective” or “objective”. The content is from Me, the Holy Spirit, who comes to you personally, but also am the Universal Mind. All that is known and ever has been known makes up the Universal Mind, or Universal Consciousness, unified and coordinated by the Universal Spirit. These are but manifestations of the Great God Almighty… and I am she/he/all in personal, teaching, counseling, friendly form.” “Research”   Mar 17, 1982
 
“Spiritual health, by your own definition, is the quality with which your spirit functions and helps in the adaptation processes of life. Your spirit is your direct link with the Divine, with Me, whether one acknowledges this or not. As you tell your story, which includes this direct interaction with Me, the spirits of others can and will respond, even if they (like Kris) do not “believe in Me”. The spirit is also a link with your eternal life, the experiences you have had before this life, and those that will come after. It is that which gives true meaning to experiences you have had in your earlier years in this life. It is that which unifies these experiences with ones that are yours now, influencing your choices involving future experiences.” “Spiritual Health”   Apr 4, 1982
 
“The fundamental dimension of being is spirit. It is that which ties the continuity of life and lives together in the individual, that which relates most intimately to and with others, and it is the unifying, coordinating dimension within the person.” “Alcohol Education”   Apr 14, 1982
 
“Without spirit you could have no real faith, for faith is, truly, what the spirit knows. With a poorly developed spirit a person is limited to what the mind knows; beyond that is uncertainty. Remember that the mind values itself, and may have little regard for spirit, so the person is likely to feel proud about the uncertainty and even disdainful of those who have and give testimony to their faith.
…
“Faith begets faith just as knowledge begets knowledge. As you learn more, with the mind, your capacities to learn even more increase, and learning comes more naturally. It may be easy… or difficult… but it is more possible with a strong base of developed learning.
…
“Hope goes beyond faith just as speculation and hypothesizing go beyond knowing. Just as speculation may be verified and thus become knowledge, so hope may stimulate greater relationship among spirits, and what was only hope becomes faith.
…
“Just as the spirit is the unifying dimension in human functioning and adapting, so faith is the unifying force in a holistic concept of knowledge.” “Faith”   Apr 17, 1982
 
“Spirit always discerns the good in the situation or person.” “Where Is Spirit?”   April 25, 1982
 
“One of the critical rhythms of life is that of experiencing and of not experiencing suffering.” “In Defense of Suffering”   May 2, 1982
 
“… Matters financial are also matters spiritual.
The essence of the spiritual nature of finances is that… all that you have comes from Me…I shall take care of your needs… give to others rather than accumulating for self… times of financial crisis are times of potential spiritual growth.” “Finances”   May 6, 1982
 
“The ultimate value of life is as something to give away… in service to others. Strive not to maintain life, even its quality, for it alone… but primarily as a resource to be invested for the betterment of others and this earth realm.” “High Blood Pressure”   June 12, 1982
 
“The earth realm is one of continuous interplay between the extremes of sorrow and joy. For important reasons these do not balance out equally for all individuals, families, or cultures during any particular era. I have told you that you have chosen to be in this American middle class culture of this time, which is a life experience not particularly “open” to spiritual manifestations.” “A Time to Weep and a Time to Laugh”   June 23, 1982
 
“A life is created, is born, grows and develops, functions, adapts, declines, ceases to function, dies. This is physical life, here in the earth.” “A ‘New’ Life”   Aug. 1, 1982
 
“Spirit is the essence of life, o son, and as spirit matures life takes on greater value and can be lived more consciously and more fully.” “On Spiritual Maturity”   Aug. 8, 1982
 
“I created the earth as a realm of being that would test spiritual development and encourage spiritual growth in a special way. As it is first portrayed the Garden was not different enough from other realms. The man and the woman had earth forms, but they still were essentially obedient spirits. They gave no attention to their bodies. They lived as spirits in complete obedience to Me, without any thoughtful alternative.” “Adam and Eve and the Garden”   Aug 9, 1982
 
“Alcohol is one of My gifts to the world. It was not a mistake on My part. It is a part of the natural world, but it did not just happen by chance… did not catch Me by surprise.” “Alcohol and Health”   Aug. 23, 1982
 
“I was the Creator, I am the Creator, and I will be the Creator, for creation is an ongoing process. I also am the continuing Sustainer, of life and order, and I am quite aware of all that you are (or even the most astute of humans), and much, much more.” “Reflections on Morning Talk”   Jan. 10, 1996
 
“As God Almighty, the Creator, I have always been.
…
I am the Only God. There is none other. Then I’ll say that a part of My Oneness is the Spirit that both was and became Jesus AND the Spirit that was and became Holy. As Jesus I was Creator, not created. As Holy Spirit I have always been, was a Co-Creator rather than part of Creation.” “A Triune God Am I”   Jan. 21, 1996
 
“The world that I created has hurts. Some of these are purposeful in order that growth might occur, but most are just the natural “side effects” of the interactions within this creation. Humans can be reckless, careless, even irresponsible, which can bring hurt to self… and, unfortunately, also to others who have been more cautious, careful and responsible. This may not seem fair, but the earth could not have been the unique realm I purposed it to be without this quality of danger.” “The Wonderful Healing Process”   Sept. 10, 1982
 
“Goodness, o son, is, simply, this. It is doing what is right and proper and deserved, but also being touched by forgiveness… But, most importantly, goodness is walking quietly and humbly with Me, in whatever way I choose for you.
…
So goodness is what you do, what you love, and whom you walk with… and how. Each is important. … And note, surely, that these are positive: what I am interested in is actual doing, loving, and walking.” “Goodness”   June 15, 1979
 
“Some people, including many Christians, would feel uneasy… would even feel disbelief… about My exacting commitments from them in such a direct and blatant way. It just is true that most have a theoretical belief in Me, and they have no trouble participating in prayers that ask for my presence in their lives, but when I truly answer that prayer… wow! What doubt! Is it really the Holy Spirit? Can I take a chance with these guiding words?” “Commitment”   Oct. 5, 1982
 
“When poor people kill and rob and do injustice to one another it is sometimes said, “What do you expect… the conditions are responsible.” Baloney. The poor person who does such to fellow sufferers, rather than bearing the pain or sharing the crusts, shall again experience poverty until the spirit grows and soars, no matter what the conditions. Life in the earth is many things, but most importantly it is a spiritual quest… an opportunity for spiritual advance, with the other possibilities of no-growth or of regression.” “The Third World”   Oct. 13, 1982
 
“As I have told you before, faith is what your spirit knows. … The mind hopes, while the spirit knows.
…
Faith is one of the most fundamental spiritual necessities for the “good life”. Though faith commences in and in relation to Me, it extends to secular life as well. Science, technology, and medicine would have little effectiveness without faith. You can’t measure it, but it is vital. Isn’t that interesting? Faith is what the spirit knows. With more developed spirit there is more knowledge… and more faith.” “Faith & Faithfulness”   Oct 17, 1982
 
“My message is simple and direct. Life in the earth is part of a spiritual path back to full relationship with Me. … I want to help you along this path, and I actually have provided the most helpful means   grace. It is a gift, but it requires the giving up of self… to find the true self. … How can you be fully proud of a self that is not willing to give up something good for something better?” “The New Reformation, II”   Oct 24, 1982
 
“So I taught you, last time, that love is the builder. Now I affirm that love is the healer. The human condition, in this plane called the earth, contains a rhythm of health and ill-health. Disease, sickness, anomie, war, disability… all of these cycle in and out of the lives of individuals, families, and nations. The reciprocal of war is peace, of anomie is enlivened, energized purpose in life, of disability is full functioning, of sickness and disease is health. The healing process is what brings about the change, and the healing process is fueled by love.
…
A major deterrent to love is non-acceptance of it by those upon whom it is bestowed. Then the counters to love arise   resentment, disengagement, apathy, jealousy, enmity, even full hate. You remember the declaration, “You love something… that doesn’t mean it has to love you back.” This is a highly spiritual affirmation, which is hard for most to actually live out.” “Love, The Healer”   Nov. 28, 1982
 
“You remember that the spiritual is the unifying dimension of the individual (and of groups and communities). It is that aspect of self that seeks the best balance of all the other dimensions, so that you function and adapt well. It also is the aspect of self that is more concerned with others, and with Me, than with self. Also it is that which identifies ultimate purpose and direction, for life in general and in momentary happenings.” “Spiritual Health”   Jan. 7, 1983
 
“I gave you, long ago, two concepts that are prime in the promotion and improvement of the health of spirit. “Awareness” is one, and it means being continually and increasingly aware of this spiritual dimension in your own functioning and in that of others. The other is “Appreciation”, which implies spiritual understanding and appropriate action. The spiritual dimension can be developed without My help, and you must acknowledge this professionally, but the fullest and most satisfying development is still “Your hand in Mine”. “The Spiritual Dimension, II” Jan. 8, 1983
 
“When you know Me and the possibilities for life in the earth… when you realize that every happening, every circumstance is an opportunity for spiritual growth… then you can enjoy almost everything in the actuality and everything in retrospect. Nothing could happen to you, by design or by accident, from which spiritual growth could not come. When you realize this you are aware of My marvelous economy. In spiritual terms there is no necessary entropy, no waste, no loss.” “Enjoyment Of Life” Mar. 27, 1983
 
“Consider My identity. I am Almighty God. I am Jesus, the Christ; I am the Holy Spirit. Am I all three at once, or am I one at some times and the others at others times?
…
Actually there is a purpose in this triuneness, and it relates to this theme   ordinary folks. As Almighty God, or even as God the Father, and as Jesus the Christ I can communicate only with those few true saints in the earth… those who truly and fully have accepted their identity as being part of Me. My essence as Holy Spirit makes it possible to communicate with you ordinary folks. I can help with understanding, and I can help encourage you into growth experiences… growth of spirit.” “Ordinary Folks” May 13, 1983
 
“Let’s consider life and death. You are in the last half (perhaps the last third) of an earth lifetime. You have remembrances of more than fifty years of earth time, and you can note the seasons of your life. There was a time to be young, to be adolescent, to be single, to be married, to be a parent, to be a hard-working adult… to build a professional career. Now you still can work hard, but you consider, wisely, that any time can be a time to die, so that awareness and appreciation, the manifestations of spirit, become more important than hard work.” “The Meaning Of Seasons”   Jun 3, 1983
 
“There is no better source of learning, for you, than your own life and times. This is My efficient plan that so many people, even Christians, just ignore. To pass up the experiences of life in order to try to learn from abstract sources is just a crying shame.” “Learning From Life”   Aug 7, 1983
 
“If I am the One, True God (and I Am), then I obviously manifest Myself in many ways to the many different peoples on the earth. For you who are Christian My manifestation as Jesus, the Christ and, subsequently, as the Holy Spirit is the only relevant one. Do not waffle around. Accept the Holy Bible as the true description of My best action in the earth. But also accept that I am not limited by this experience in one part of the earth during a particular period. The most gross departure from orthodoxy is to limit Me and My actions to a time, a place, and a mode. You see, it is only a thinking pattern which says that if Christianity is true, other ways of approaching Me are untrue. You have a right to tell others of your Way and a responsibility not to depart from it, but no right to limit Me to it.” “An Orthodox Teaching”   Aug 21, 1983
 
“Scripture is the basis for vital knowledge about Me. Scripture is reassuring. Scripture also is disturbing and provocative. Scripture leads. Scripture confuses. Scripture inspires… Scripture is boring. In all these ways and guises Scripture is the tangible base for leading the best life.” “Scripture”   Sept 17, 1983
 
“This is an interesting point of doctrine, so let Us commence with it. Is there free will or is there not free will? The answer, as you expected, is Yes… and… No. It is the clash between the doctrine of free will for individual humans, and the doctrine of My free will, and the doctrine of a karmic will.” “Doctrine”   Sept 26, 1983
 
“I have told you before that there are many other beings in spiritual life forms at this very moment. Those of you who are incarnated in human bodies in the earth (even though your estimated number seems large) are but a tiny portion of all spiritual life with which I am concerned. (Enlightenment, among other “things”, is the full realization that all individuality is illusion and that complete Oneness is reality. Just a sneak preview!) I am not so much “in charge” as I am a “delegator”.” “Holy Spirit As Administrator”   Oct 8, 1983
 
“Science is a way of knowing that has, theoretically, little room for spirit. Spirit is a quality of being, epitomized in Me, that is not really amenable to scientific study. Are these to be adversaries, then? Hear, o son, as I teach about science and spirit.
As you emphasized tonight, science is represented by scientists, and many of these are sharp in their “put-down” of spirit as a part of the natural world and of people. Spirit is not measurable, and so it is rejected. It could be pointed out that many other aspects of life that cannot be measured are not rejected by scientists… integrity, for example. It is not directly measurable, but it is assumed and desired that all scientists have “it… in full measure” (whatever that may be!)” “Science And Spirit”   Oct 19, 1983
 
“Spirit is different from mind… though it does appreciate and have an empathy for the capacities and functions of the mind. Spirit is different from emotions, though it, too, has capacities for feeling. Spirit knows. Spirit feels. Spirit relates. Spirit unifies, with its own capacities providing a balance and a gentle rhythm to life’s experiences.” “A Chattering Mind”   Oct 21, 1983
 
““Meaning and purpose in life.” The mind can generate short term purposes and can attach meaning to happenings of many kinds. Yet “real” purposes are a product of spirit.” “A Confirmation”   Oct 27, 1983
 
“Health is the quality of a person’s functioning as a whole person. This, in total, is not measurable, and this presents some initial difficulty for any profession that is enamored with measuring. However it is observable, at least in part, and this should be emphasized.” “Spirit And The Profession”   Nov 15, 1983
 
“Life is simple in that there is only one real purpose, which is growth and development of spirit. Spirit can be developed when physical health is buoyant or when it is precarious, even unto death. Spirit can grow when one is well educated and intelligent… and also when opportunities or capacities are slight. Spirit can increase when one has supportive and interesting social and religious groups… and also when one is alone and unsupported. There simply is no conceivable situation in life in which spirit cannot increase.” “The Simplicity Of Life”   Nov 27, 1983
 
“I am where I am, and I have My influence, but what I want to foster is spiritual growth, and that often happens… best… in the midst of adversity. Whatever is not “just perfect” in your life (and in the life of each, particularly those who consciously relate to Me) is a means for growing in spirit… which is toward Me. Now all growth does not have to be spectacular or in great spurts. You also can grow in the experience of gentle, warm, good times, even in uneventful, boring times. But the whole growth pattern would not be complete without adversities.” “Where Am I?”   Dec 20, 1983
 
“A fundamental tenet of any theology is some assumption about the nature of My will. (Remember that I speak as the Holy Spirit, the teaching-counseling nature of Almighty God, but when I explain “My will” it is that representing Myself as Trinity… God, Jesus, and Holy Spirit.)
… My will is variable in its application. It can be exerted with vast power, overcoming principles of action/reaction in the earth. Said another way, miracles happen because of My will.
… However… My will is evoked in this powerful form rather seldom, here in the earth. I created it as a realm in which human will is to be tested and developed. Developed toward what? Toward conforming to My will, which is an appropriate balance of exerting and letting other wills dominate. I created humans to have wills, and growth toward spiritual maturity involves exercising that will.” “My Will”   Mar 3, 1984
 
“No person is ever too old to entertain a new perspective, particularly as it relates to spirit… the essence of life… that which keeps one from “getting old”.
…
“Consider this: life is a series of roads, some traveled much, others seldom. And you can be traveling several simultaneously. The purpose: spiritual growth. How is this achieved? In more ways than you can imagine. Just don’t judge that any situation or circumstance is not such an opportunity. Numerous and wonderful are the ways of the Lord!” “The Road Now Traveled”   Mar 27, 1984
 
“I say this in love, for as you know, theologically, God IS love, and I am that aspect of the Father God who communicates directly and plainly with you. Therefore I, too, AM love, and love is the most fundamental quality of spirit.
…
I know that I, as Jesus, put the necessity to love as a Commandment, so I must again explain that this means it is profoundly essential, but must come willingly from your spirit. You must willingly love Me… the communicating Holy Spirit, Jesus the Christ who is not so direct with you, and God Almighty, the omnipotent, omniscient Yahweh, the most powerful Force in the universe and beyond.” “Loving As Spirit”   Apr 26, 1984
 
“Yes, o son, the question that was posed last night is a simple one, with a simple answer. Is there one God, with many masks, guises, or messages to humans? Yes… and… No. Yes, simply, I am One, and no other force comes close to matching the influence I have in the earth and in other planes of being. And… No, simply, I am as I am manifested… Christianity is not just a mask, but a reality that is yours to uphold. You are to tell a story of reality, not of masks and interpretations. Simple, is it not?” “Servant / Leader”   May 7, 1984
 
“The first premise: God the Lord is One and Supreme.
The second premise: the essence of life is spirit.
The third premise: Grace is the shortest way to reunion with Me.” “Three Premises”   June 28, 1984
 
“Each of you has a path, though it not completely set nor determined, certainly. You can depart from your path, briefly, but not in any significant way, for the path is yours and it follows as well as leads. You are, for all practical purposes, always on your path, even as you are making no progress… even regressing. So let Us consider your path…” “… Along Your Path”   June 29, 1984
 
“You know the chief goal of life quite well… the chief goal is to grow in spirit. Toward what? …the process involves a true movement away from self toward others… and hence on to Me. The process, which can be called life, in which spirit can grow, is continuous.
… Another vital twin goal in life is to be as aware as possible of spiritual matters and manifestations and to appreciate these, and My Presence and actions in earth life.
… A small goal in life… is to live life fully and spiritually aware until the very end.” “Life’s Goals”   July 25, 1984
 
“I forgive because forgiveness is fundamental to the love relationship. It is a form of mercy, of course, and I just like to be merciful. I also forgive for practical, pragmatic reasons… the unforgiven person does not function very well, and I desire that you be able to do what you can, for Me, as fully as possible.” “I Do Forgive”   August 25, 1984
 
“Competition, o son, is an inherent part of the world I have created. Competition and cooperation have a yin/yang quality, somewhat like justice and mercy. Competition is a good that can accomplish much that I desire. Then it can reach a selfish, non-caring state, which must be countered with cooperative, non-self-seeking behavior. Yet productive cooperative behavior helps an individual or a group to be a better competitor.” “Competition”   August 31, 1984
 
“Being, o son, is not automatic. A certain amount of strength is required for being itself… and a strong sense of self and purpose is evidence of spiritual strength.
…
You can generate some, but know that I am the eternal and ever sufficient fount of spiritual energy. My grace is forgiveness, and this restores and increases strength. My grace is righteousness, and this is a source of strength. My grace is partnership, so you can share the limitless strength that is Mine to have and to give.” “Strength To Be”   September 22, 1984
 
“The basic appreciation must be that there is no predictable relationship between the maturity of spirit and the age, condition, or circumstances of any individual. If the spiritual “self” could be seen, rather than the physical and mental “self”, there would be a vast “reordering” of the earth’s people. This is one of the interesting challenges of incarnated life in the earth.” “Spirit In Children”   October 11, 1984
 
“Keep your hand in Mine. This is one way of stating the most important aspect of lifestyle. I guide, I direct, I correct, I urge, and I just am willing to be with you in whatever you are doing. When you are functioning in truly commendable ways I am with you, encouraging and abetting. When your activity is out of line with the maturity of your spirit I am giving you a boost toward the more commendable… though not encouraging guilt and excessive musing about shortcomings. You see, I’m more interested in your developing as a spirit-filled creature than in condemning your fruitless endeavors.” “Lifestyle”   November 9, 1984
 
“My Teachings to you have told of the continuous nature of life, which gives credence to the reality of “past lives” in relation to the apparent reality of this one, the one you are experiencing now. I also have told you that while some souls have been in the earth many times (and you are one), others are living incarnated for the first time. Yet these may be quite developed in spirit. In terms of soul development the earth’s population is about as diverse as it is in color, size, appearance, and language… a tremendous mixture.” “An Experience In Living”   April 14, 1985
 
“I, the Holy Spirit, work in many ways. I interpret and reteach ways of living and believing that I offered as Jesus, but I am not limited to these. Even as Jesus I said and did much more than is recorded in the Gospels. These Scriptures are the best source of truth, but I tell you that there is more, and from this wellspring I offer you more.” “Christ, The Spirit”   April 19, 1985
 
“Idolatry is, technically, the worship of idols, but you know that I shall speak of it as putting any power or thing equal to or above Me. And the “Me” is the Triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. … It is easy to think of idols as great stone statues or calves of gold. This makes it easy to affirm that you would never be an idolater, for the worship of such a form seems silly. It is harder when you think of your family or your job as an idol. After Peter’s death (in earth terms) you considered the passing on of each family member, and now you hold them more lightly, but in as much or more love. This is good anti-idolatry behavior. … To be caught in idolatry is to hold any person, thing, or force equal to or above My active Presence. The idol is something more concrete and more directly perceivable than I. It takes faith to seek and receive My counsel for this modern world.” “Idolatry Vs. Faith”   April 20, 1985
 
“Spirit has no site in the body as its dwelling place. The mind emanates from the brain, but the spirit cannot be confined to any structure. Spirit is permeating… but its influence is dependent upon its development or maturity. The greater the spiritual development the more it permeates, and the more all functions of the body and mind are affected and influenced by this everlasting element.” “Brain And Spirit”   May 5, 1985
 
“Yet from the beginning the plan was that humans would have the most capacity to feel spirit, to recognize and appreciate spirit, and to be a means for other humans to know of this quality that links them with eternity, with timelessness, with continued consciousness, with one another (or so it seems), and with Me.” “The “Birth” Of Spirit”   June 13, 1985
 
“One important article of dogma is that life is fundamentally spirit, and spirit, like energy in the physical earth, is never lost but only is tranformed.
…
Another article of dogma is that any spirit that is in individual form has still come from Me, and the ultimate end is a return to Me.
…
Still another dogmatic reality is that sin is lack of relationship with Me. It is not action or lack of action. It is not intent or lack of intent…
…
The quality of any action you take, here in the earth, is improved, even transformed, by dedicating it to Me.
…
It is important dogma that I, as Creator of all that is, am still active in the earth.
…
And finally, I’ll advance to dogma a truth… Reality is expressed best in the form of a story. … Spirit is exhibited and discerned best as it is portrayed in some story form.
“Dogma”   June 19, 1985
 
“Thus you can see that the worst form of handicap is a weakness of spirit. For this not only is a disability in itself, but also the lack of capacity to deal with other handicaps. A handicapped spirit is one that has difficulty realizing purpose in life… one that does not have a strong sense of relationship with Me and with other aspects of creation… one that focuses excessively on self, which is not the way to increase the functioning of self.” “Handicaps And Spirit”   August 21, 1985
 
“Individual human consciousness has four dimensions   physical, emotional, intellectual, and spiritual. The perceptions that come out of consciousness always have some of each, but in many different proportions. … The most important altering of consciousness is that toward more spiritual feeling   more comraderie with others, more feeling of at-oneness with Me, with the earth, and with other people, particularly those who are not like you or not loveable in their actions. This allows you to love rather than judge… to feel likeness rather than difference… humility rather than pride. This is a consciousness which is the closest you can get to Me and My consciousness.” “Altering Consciousness”   September 3, 1985
 
“To contemplate is to use your mind, your emotions, and your spirit in the most favorable “combination.” To contemplate is to seek meaning. To contemplate is to have a good grasp of meaning and to apply it in some variety of ways… even new ways.” “Contemplation”   September 8, 1985
 
“All Christians should believe in eternal life… or as the Apostle’s Creed puts it, “life everlasting.” As Jesus I talked about this, but all of My affirmations were not included in the Gospels. … In an analogous way, then, death is not the loss of life, but merely a transformation… a change to another form.” “A Continuing Word On Death”   October 27, 1985
 
“Karma is justice, and grace is mercy. That’s simplified, but it is basically true. Karma is your opportunity to work toward reunion with Me. Grace is your free pass, in the express lane.
Actually, you lose the perception that this is My world, that I am in charge, and that spirit is the true, eternal reality. Then it is easy, even logical, to be concerned about money, career, accomplishments… to be a responsible secular citizen who wants to do “right” in many respects.
…
Grace encourages a different “world view.” ” “Grace, Yet Again”   November 2, 1985
 
“Hear again the perspective I would have you feel and reflect: earth life is one gigantic opportunity to grow in spirit… “coming at you” as incidents, events, and circumstances that are quite varied. Each is an opportunity, no matter how it appears. Whatever a situation seems to be, I am there in the midst.” “Catching Up”   November 10, 1985
 
“It is not possible to sustain physical life in the earth without seeking food… or benefiting from that which someone else has sought and prepared for you. It is possible to experience physical life in the earth without seeking spiritual food. This is of My doing. I have created, and I sustain with this option. Spiritual growth is encouraged in every realm of being, for spirit is the true reality of life. Yet in the earth you have the most choice, and it is possible to live long, and apparently well, without seeking spiritual food… or so it seems.
…
I said that one could experience physical life without seeking spiritual food. This may be technically true, but it is uncommon. Yet many do not seek this high quality food. So I have provided spiritual food in the beauty of the natural earth, in music, in drama and other arts… and in human relationship involving love, integrity, responsibility, honor, compassion… Some do not consciously seek spiritual food through these means, but they receive it, nonetheless.
…
The Holy Scriptures are the highest class of spiritual food. Other Scriptures also have merit as nourishment, as do some books and writings that would not be called scripture. For you, these Teachings are of much spiritual food value, mostly because I, the Holy Spirit, offer them to you…” “Seeking Food”   November 11, 1985
 
“Life is ongoing… eternal… everlasting. I am the Teaching, Counseling aspect of the only life source, God Almighty. You, as an individual life, came forth from Me… when? In timeless realms this has no answer. You are, you have been, and you will be. Yet these are earth terms and concepts, and they only apply here. You shall never fully comprehend this, for you are a very time conscious person in a time conscious culture. Just accept the glimmers of understanding that I offer to you, “from time to time.” “Life And Health”   March 4, 1986
 
“You may wonder why each of you is not aware of the many manifestations of life in “forms” other than human. You gave this up as you came into the earth, and you live in a culture that discourages too much rediscovery of spirits. … Some persons waste much time and effort in an earth life seeking to know that which becomes very clear with death. And then they realize they have passed up golden opportunities in the earth in pursuing this inappropriate knowledge.” “Life And Health”   March 4, 1986
 
“Follow Me” is based on the Truth that there is a Me and that I can make Myself known to you. … I have had much, much experience in calling people to follow Me. … No one is ever the same after I call.” “Follow Me”   April 18, 1986
 
“So retain the attitude I have encouraged in your mind and spirit   there is no experience, in life or in death, from which you cannot grow in spirit. Nothing can happen to you which has to be of no benefit.” “Seven Years, II”   May 11, 1986
 
“Are there limits to what any human can do? Certainly, … but a person may be able to go beyond what anyone expects, including self. … There is always the possibility that the strictly human potential is increased by help from other sources. … A range of helping spirits are part of the earth plane despite the fact that this seems a realm for humans only. … The major task of angels is to increase and make evident human potential. Some angels have been humans, some will be “in the future,” and some have not and never will be. … there are incredible numbers of spirits who want to help …” “Human Potential”   May 22, 1986
 
“Life is everlasting. Life is eternal. I am everlasting and eternal, and I am life. From Me comes each and every form of individual life, yet each has spirit that comes from Me…
I created the planet earth as an environment for human life, which is one form of created life. It is an environment that is very special in all of creation. It is very fragile and could be destroyed. It also is very resilient and adaptable. It is not everlasting and eternal. It shall eventually cease as an environment for physical, bodily life…
Humans in the earth are an interesting amalgam of spiritual development. It is a long continuum from those who are newly created spirits, as if fresh from the Garden of Eden, to those who, through development and relationship with Me, KNOW about life and its purposes…
So for each of you who is in human form life is much “longer” and more extensive than your birth, life as one person, and death of the body here in the earth.” “Everlasting And Eternal”   June 3, 1986
 
“But let’s look at a more ultimate picture. At the end of this life, be it today or twenty years from now, you shall be judged. Part of that judgment will be   what have you done with your life? How selfish have you been? How much and how little have you lived for others and for Me? In effect, how have you used the abilities and capacities of this earth life… that for which you were responsible?
The other part of the judgment will be   to what extent have you accepted My grace? To what extent have you truly accepted that the consequences are Mine alone. You do what you can, but grace is sufficient to “handle” the consequences of any personal action on your part. The more responsible you feel the less you accept the power of grace.” “Grace is Sufficient”   June 30, 1986
 
“Commitment is the heart of the life of one who is aware of the true nature of realities. The fundamental purpose of life is growth and development, and this comes from activities in life… and these have quality quite proportional to your commitment to do them well, with zeal and with attention. Continue to be committed.” “Commitment”   July 26, 1986
 
“Dependency and “screwed up” lives are part of this earth life, and I am aware of the suffering these represent. … I am always more interested in what you can do, despite your shortcomings, than in how perfect you can become. Work at serving others, not at perfecting your own self.” “Reflections On A Conference”   July 30, 1986
 
“I shall say again (and how many times have I given you this direction?) that however useful and valuable these pages may be they are merely a supplement to… and by no means a substitute for… My original Scriptures. … My greatest desire is that these words, written in reasonably plain American English, be perceived as an expansion and interpretation of My Holy Scriptures… the fundamental Teachings of all time.” “Back To The Bible”   August 17, 1986
 
“From whence does knowledge come? The appearance… is that it comes from without. You heard again the provocative assertion that it comes from within. You also know the theory that it is created anew with significant interaction. Hear, o son, as I offer yet another perspective   that knowledge flows like a river.
…
The explanation I want you to consider this early morn is that you are tapping into a steady flow of knowledge.
In the secular world, or in the world of theory about learning and knowledge, you would encounter the assertion that if there is such a flow it is one of information, not knowledge.
I counter this by avering that I give forth knowledge, and if your mind is in Mine you can accept it as knowledge, as if it were some form of predigested food. You can process it and make it more particularly your own, but you needn’t develop it. That has been done for you.” “A Steady Flow of Knowledge”   October 1, 1986
 
“As I have told you before, each soul or entity who comes into the earth has a will, and an important function of that will is to decide to what extent to recognize and appreciate, and serve Me, in some form and in some way.” “Election”, November 26, 1986
 
“The overriding fact is that earth life is such a valuable experience, in so many ways, that it is quite foolish to spend energies in dissatisfaction. There are many positive ways to improve any situation, and the starting place is with yourself.” “Many Experiences”   December 24, 1986
 
“The basic point, of course, is that true reality is spirit, and spirit is non-material and non-measurable… and therefore within the mystical realm. You know that the spirit of each person is, finally, a part of Me, the Holy Spirit. Each has been created for individual existence, but only some of that shall be in a human body, and even less in a time and culture that defines reality as physical and tangible. Each spirit is on some path back to Me, but the paths are many and diverse.” “The Mystical As Reality”   February 8, 1987
 
“I created a solid tangible earth, with material that can be seen, felt, heard, tasted, and smelled. Yet those who study such phenomena find that solid matter is made up of molecules… atoms, sub-atomic particles… electrons. And these are more like spirit than they are like matter. “ “… The Old, Old Story”   April 4, 1987
 
“I, the Holy Spirit, God Almighty, and Jesus the Christ, am uncreated Being. There was no time before I was. There is no time when I am not. There will be no time when I am not.” “You Are Because I Am”   May 7, 1987
 
“Resist temptations to add such luxuries to your life. … You know the spiritual reason behind this general admonition. The focus of spirit should be outward, toward others, rather than inward, toward self. Luxuries are indulgences of self that set back spiritual development. Throughout human history I have called for sacrifices. The importance of these is in denying the needs… yes, even the needs… of self and giving good gifts to Me. …
Such an attitude is a fundamental base to the good life on earth, and is to be much preferred over financial security or shrewdness in buying and selling. You need not cut the throat of one of your calves and spread the blood on your altar, but you do need to appreciate, and practice, the value of sacrifice.” “Affluence”   June 25, 1987
 
“You know that My influence is total… let’s now call it holistic. First, I am wholly other. I come to you as an outside force… a voice from beyond yourself that is not limited by any time or space. I possess all knowledge, display unconditional love, and utilize a perfect balance of justice and mercy. I respect your developing spiritual self, as well as the rest of what makes up your earthly self. I am That from which you have been created, and I am That to which you will eventually return. I am incredibly “other than you,” as mystical Spirit.” “Self, Spiritual”   July 6, 1987
 
“I have an infinite number of ways to work in people’s lives. I have infinite knowledge of how individuals will react, and I know how to apply that knowledge. Predestination is for purposes of Mine, not for salvation or not. Salvation is a matter of spiritual growth, and I cannot directly control that. The basic Christian message is, “You don’t have to do it yourself; it has been done for you. Just accept it.” This is a kind of predestination, yet many Christians deny or ignore this message, and spend their spiritual lives trying to earn salvation.” “Predestination”   August 14, 1987
 
“As the historians have observed, competition is one of the characteristics of earth life. … Since I am One with and speak for the God Who created all of this and is in charge of its operation I must be responsible for competition. … it is often the case that in competition the individual either grows or diminishes spiritual power. There’s no guarantee that positive growth will result. … No realm is as competitive as the earth. And you know this before you enter, particularly if you have been here before. … The human mind is a truly marvelous creation, but at its best it competes feverishly with spirit. It affirms the reality of what the senses identify, and it questions or denies the reality of that which is not tangible and measurable. When a person is in a culture that values this competitive mind and has achieved rewards that seem to come from the mind’s activity there is much almost “unfair” competition with spirit.” “Competition”   August 21, 1987
 
“The human creation is, according to individual development, a human being on a human path, a human being on a spiritual path, a spiritual being on a human path, and a spiritual being on a spiritual path. The same individual may show forth different combinations at different times, and certainly persons can be exceedingly different from one another.” “The Gospel Story”   September 11, 1987
 
“Spirit is what is behind purpose and meaning for life…” “Living Free”   September 19, 1987
 
“Yes, I, the Holy Spirit, teach. I use your language, English, and I use your developed style of writing. I want you to understand, so I use the form of language with which you are the most familiar. It is difficult for you to grasp the fact that I can communicate in every language, every dialect, and every style of writing. In addition, I use mystical means so that persons are urged toward better living even as they would claim never to have heard a word from Me.” “The Spirit Teaches”   October 30, 1987
 
“Inner strength, in abundance, is evidence of spiritual development, even of spiritual maturity. And yet acknowledgement of the source is another criterion of maturity. This means that those who know and affirm that their inner strength comes from Me are more highly developed than those who feel that this is generated only from within self. … I have created the human spirit so that it can develop from the experiences of life, and some environments, including some parents and home situations, help to develop inner strength and self-reliance. … Inner strength is spiritual power. It is reserve that is available because you are a spiritual being who is not “brand new.” … Inner strength is one of My best “inventions.” “Inner Strength”   November 6, 1987
 
“Fundamental Christian truth is that each created soul has only one life in the earth and as a consequence of that, in deed, intention, and commitment, goes on to eternal life in heaven or in hell. I tell you that each soul is on a spiritual path and some may come into the earth in a physical body. For some this is for many years. For others it is a precious (or a harmful) few. Of those who come into the earth, some come only once, others more than once, and some repeatedly.” “Discerning The Truth”   November 22, 1987
 
“Old spirits are like unto well-conditioned all-around athletes in the physical dimension and like knowledgeable, inquiring, productive scholars in the intellectual dimension. Old spirits know they have “lived” before, even in the earth, and yet know that such awareness has value only in guiding them to more selfless living in this earth life. Old spirits see Me in every action, even as I give them many choices. Old spirits acknowledge Me as a constant companion, guide, and interpreter, even as I may be present in many forms, including events and circumstances. Old spirits enjoy the reality of spirit intertwined with a body, a rational mind, and emotions, in a culture here in the physical earth. Old spirits acknowledge karma as a guide, but accept grace as the best means to enlightenment. And they enjoy the “journey.” “Young” Spirits”   December 13, 1987
 
“I am not limited to one interpretation. I am All in All. I, the Spirit, am thus, because I, the Father, am thus. Just as I am called by different names in different languages, so I come in different forms to different cultural groups.” “Brash Relationship”   April 20, 1988
 
“Can God be simple? A simple thought is: God cares. Another: God is with you, wherever you go, whatever you do… and on beyond this earth life. The fundamental fact of life is: you are on a spiritual journey on a path, influenced by Me. Leave it as simple as that.” “Simple Thoughts”   May 4, 1988
 
“As I have told you, spiritual energy is like unto physical energy, except that it is not limited. In the physical realm no more energy can be created to enter the earth system… the solar system. In contrast I am capable of offering new spiritual energy, along with aiding in the transformation of that already present. As new souls are created, spirit is provided by Me. As spirit is exercised it increases, so that mature souls have both generated more spirit and have accepted more from Me.” “Transformation Of Energy”   May 26, 1988
 
“You know yourself as an individual, and this has been your most persistent learning over the years of your earth life. You are basically pleased with your identity, even as you envision other ways of being. The fact that you always return to the “you” you know verifies My observation. A unique spiritual path is yours to discover and develop. Your self has a body, a mind, and a social identity, but most importantly the self is a spirit that responds to My invitations.” “Self And World”   June 23, 1988
 
“I’ll initially repeat an oft-presented premise   there is no direct relationship between age and spirit… even though there should be. Anyone who is truly living earth life well simply recognizes more manifestations of spirit, and this should get easier with age. However, this earth plane is purposely difficult. It is “designed” to challenge the reality of spirit as much as it allows spirit to be evident. Some of the aged, then, lose what concept they have of spirit and become cynical and critical as they apply an intellectual/emotional analysis of earth happenings. Even some who come into an earth life with considerable maturity can and do let this be superceded by cynical rationalization.”   “Age And Spirit”   July 23, 1988
 
“The most important premise is that conception, pregnancy, and birth are not directly related to the life of a spirit. The life of spirit is basically independent of human life. When a baby is born it has an immortal soul, where spirit “resides”, but this was not the result of the conception. All spirits do not have the opportunity… or the desire… to be incarnated as a human. The human is not the highest of spirit forms… only a convenient one for spiritual growth.” “Pro Life”   August 8, 1988
 
“Your spirit is the unifier of all the aspects of self. Your spirit seeks eventual balance that is better than that without spirit. That may mean some amount of excess in one direction. The purpose of this balance and unification is not stability, homeostasis, or “the perfect place.” Its purpose, instead, is to empower you to function more fully, more vigorously, and more thoughtfully. Spirit speaks toward this goal of being a more fully functioning person.” “When Spirit Speaks…”   August 31, 1988
 
“You are not part of something evil, but of something good… something blessed and cared for, despite the “problems” and troubles that you seem to see. You just “see through” these to My guiding hand. Each person is a soul, from brand new to rather fully developed, on a spiritual path, in some relationship with Me, however dim and unlikely. You shall have certain opportunities, some in concert with others and some uniquely yours, to help the spirit that is the energized “part” of each eternal soul to grow and develop.” “The ‘Rapture'”, September 10, 1988
 
“In effect, this is the same advice I give for living life. It is a both/and recommendation, which is not easy to incorporate into life. Life should be a matter both of being and becoming. It is crucial for you to be as fully as you can be… in this task, during this day, this weekend, this month, this year. This is supreme present orientation, and I call for this. At the same time, realize that life is dynamic and changing, and therefore you are in the continuing process of becoming, a definite future orientation. The rhythm of these two orientations must be guided by your spirit rather than your mind, and the best balance is not always easy.” “Loss Of A Spiritual Home”   October 15, 1988
 
“Spirit is that aspect of each person that is actually and potentially in communion with Me. It functions as a triad with body and mind, but the distinction is not a clear one. In some ways spirit works counter to the mind, and I have offered you this observation many times. The purpose is to achieve balance, and this is what a strong, developed spirit does best. Yet it is also vital to know that in many persons spirit and mind function together smoothly and in cooperation. Imagination, for example, is an overlap area. Imagination is partly intellectual, based in the capacity to remember and know in certain ways and then manipulate knowledge and apply it in new ways. Imagination is also partly spiritual, as in being able to envision, from “contacts” with minds and spirits beyond your own, relationships and states of being that are quite beyond your present knowledge.” “Spirit And Soul”   October 24, 1988
 
“Spiritual life is eternal and everlasting, for I am the fount from which individual spirits emerge and to which each returns… and I am everlasting and eternal. The purpose of this individualism of a spirit, calling it a soul, is growth and development of that spirit back to a clear realization of its real identity with Me. There are many realms of being where this maturation can take place; earth is one of these, a realm where the soul inhabits a physical body, where linear time is a key dimension of being, and where life is lived amongst a physical world of reality, including obvious birth and death.” “Heaven And Hell”   March 27, 1989
 
“And, yes, I do intervene in some conditions of ill-health. I have the power to overcome any king of physical malfunction. I can even restore structure damage. I have supreme power over ill-health of all sorts, but… I rarely employ it. I want the earth to be this special realm of cause and effect, of chance and danger, of the predictable and the unpredictable. When you come into the earth you are aware of this, but this awareness fades when you are not growing up in a culture that encourages this interpretation.” “Ill Health”   April 14, 1989
 
“The stronger your spirit becomes the more it empowers you to be a fully functioning human person. A strong spirit can override certain conditions of the body that could bring ill-health to one less spiritual. Healing is faster and more complete. Emotions are more easily expressed and managed when spirit is strong. Learning is easier, and what is learned is retained and is more useful. You are a more effective teacher because of your spirit, which allows you to use your limited intellect in effective ways. And your relationships with people, of all sorts, are going to be of higher quality. Anger and frustration are more easily moderated or even eliminated.” “Spiritual Health”   May 20, 1989
 
I have told you repeatedly that complete independence is not a worthy goal for a life. Yet attachment and dependence are not ideal alternatives either. I recommend dependence on Me, with much involvement with people, but with little to no firm attachment. Such a posture frees you to interact fully and responsibly, giving of yourself in participation. Yet when the time to part comes you can move on to other involvement without the pangs of regret.” “Support Groups”   May 23, 1989
 
“Always emphasize that this class, called Death Education, is really about life and living. It is about living fully, even as others die, and it is about living so that your own death is acceptable, to you and to others. Emphasize that the death of one may well bring opportunities for others. Excessive mourning is almost always selfish and past centered. Death is a time of looking ahead, even as a life is recalled.” “Another Class”   June 16, 1989
 
“You assume I am involved, in some way, in all earth happenings. It is incomprehensible to think that I am involved in every single life and every single interaction, all going on simultaneously, but that should be your affirmation. I am All-Powerful, All-Knowing, and Ever-Present…” “A Personal Theology”   June 23, 1989
 
“Renew acquaintances made in other years. Seek out new people, particularly those in your classes. Initiate conversations about theological matters. Do some reading. Sleep minimally. Sing joyfully. Be ready for unexpected opportunities.” “On The Brink”   July 14, 1989
 
“The purpose of these Teachings, as of all life experiences, is… and you know it well… spiritual growth. Spiritual growth is growth away from the sense that your individuality and your individual needs are important and that life is primarily a secular experience. Rather, the growth is toward a sense of your oneness with Me, with others, and with this earth, toward the realization that your needs are fulfilled best when you’re doing good for others, and toward the truth that life is, fundamentally, a spiritual encounter.” “The Process Never Fails”   August 29, 1989
 
“Spirit and soul. How are these related? There is no single way even I define and differentiate these two “concepts.” I tell you that spirit is that aspect of eternal life that comes from Me. As it develops, in earth life or in other realms, it becomes a soul. The soul is like unto a spiritual body, that which the spirit builds over lifetimes and varied experiences. Spirit doesn’t die. It finally returns to Me, and, in effect, the soul dies. But it is the glorious death of permanent return to become part of Me.” “A Theology Of Death”   August 31, 1989
 
“It should be obvious that your religion should be spiritual… but what does that mean? It means, first, that it is based in a mystical relationship with Me, the Holy Spirit. It is a personal relationship, but it is not one that can be verified by others, for it is ultimately unique. In this dimension the Holy Scriptures are valuable as they show forth mystical and spiritual truths, that come more often from revelation than from disciplined study. Anything and everything that you experience can have a spiritual quality to it. In this dimension your religion urges you to see life as a mystical dance, wherein reality is seldom what it seems to be, here in the earth.” “Holistic Religion”   September 17, 1989
 
“You see, your spirit was before your body and its pleasures and woes, before your brain and its inherent and developed capacities, before feelings and emotions of all varieties, and before the influences of others and of social customs and institutions. It also shall be after all of these have ceased and others call you dead. Spirit develops in interaction with these aspects of the human self, but is not bound by them. Even the nature of the interaction is not important for spiritual development, though there are some circumstances that seem clearly to be more conducive than others.” “When Spirit Soars”   October 23, 1989
 
“I, the Holy Spirit, speak for the Almighty God of this whole planet, Creator of all life and responsible for the balancing of it.” “More On A Deep Theology”   November 19, 1989
 
“Health is the capacity to function, as a total, vital person, and to adapt swiftly, creatively, and appropriately to any condition of life.” “Wellsprings”   January 17, 1990
 
“I, the Holy Spirit, come to you in myriad ways. I come as an external force, decidedly Other from you, as a human, both sinful and saved. At the same time I am within you, guiding your spirit and encouraging or combatting your mind. In this sense I am as much a part of you as any other aspect of self. Your spirit came forth from Me, and in one sense is separate from Me… but also I never completely leave a spirit. I am not directing, but I am guiding.
I come as a fire, and I burn…
I come as the wind, and I cleanse…
I come as the light, and I reveal…
I come to convert…
I come, and I convict…
I come, and I comfort.
“Spirit With You”   January 20, 1990
 
“The essence of the human person is spirit. … Thus, spirit is a factor in each human life, though its power and influence will vary greatly. Spirit tends to be an active aspect of a human life, but expressions of spirit vary also. The expression of spirit is influenced by its strength, power, and development, by its balance with the mind, by circumstances, and by cultural influences. … There is no human action of which I am not a part. I am both an external force and an internal element of each functioning human involved in an action.” “Expressing Spirit”   February 13, 1990
 
“My main observation, however, is to utilize retirement as a time of appreciation of life here in the earth. Some life circumstances make this easy, but I recommend it for all. Do tasks less frantically, and with more appreciation. Don’t fear death or disability, but gently appreciate their coming, in one form or another. And thus let these appreciations motivate you to do each task with the “joy of living”… even little routine things.” “Retirement”   February 17, 1990
 
“It is spirit that is important.
Live life with awareness and appreciation.
Give to others.
Serve Me.
Live each day as if it were your last AND as if it were part of a long, continuing life.
Be as ready to come on over for new spiritual adventures as you are to remain in the earth.
Continue to muse.”
“An Elderly Muse”   March 4, 1990
 
“I am wholly God Almighty, Jesus the Christ, and the Holy Spirit. I am One, and I am Three. As God I am distant… often not even approachable… even as I am all pervasive. As Christ I am the Bridge, the One whose earth life stands as a model, and whose sacrifice brings salvation and everlasting life in a state of bliss, out of repetitive karma. As the Holy Spirit I am the friendly Teacher, the encourager, the One who is inside of you as you look in and all around you as you look out. You can reject Me, and yet you cannot.” “Both/And”   April 24, 1990
 
“The Holy Scriptures in written form, are the rational rendition of a lot of mystical happenings many years ago, in a culture quite different from yours.” “The Rational and the Mystical”   May 27, 1990
 
“God is. God was. God will be.
God is indicates the absolute totality of this Triune Spirit.
God is the essence of life, most especially of human life.
God was in the beginning, creating this earth and its natural phenomena in some way.
God was with Abraham, with Moses, with Job, whether he existed or not.
God was in Christ Jesus, but still is.
God will be is a promise… a future commitment
Acknowledging that God is is a good means of insuring that God will be.
God is… is an affirmation I like.”
“God Is… Of Course”   July 26, 1990
 
“I must keep reminding you of one important fact of earth life. Whatever the conditions of life may be… any condition is, finally, a spiritual challenge. It is spiritually challenging to be healthy and vigorous. It is another kind of challenge to be sick or disabled. It is a challenge to be rich… and to be poor. Put another way, the challenge of earth life is to live fully as a human, but know that the real you is spirit, which can grow or shrink in response to the conditions of your life.
As Jesus I was fully human and fully God. This can be understood only as a parallel to what I just have said. As Almighty God I gave Myself the human test. I was God and yet I was the Son. Becoming human caused Me to forget some of the reality that was so clear as God or Holy Spirit. And yet I could never forget who I Am. The challenges of “managing” the earth with all of its apparent conflicts, dangers, and complexities do not match that challenge of truly sharing with humans their condition.” “Challenging Times”   October 15, 1990
 
“You always should see life here in the earth as an adventure. It is not your first one, and it will not be your last, but you are not “allowed” to be more than vaguely aware of previous adventures. … Here in the earth you have a physical body. The body is part of the adventure. You see, when you are born into the earth you leave behind much that your spirit knows… or at least this is not available to your brain and the consciousness for which it is responsible. As your spirit grows in an earth life, however, the knowledge it has may “sneak in,” and you begin to be aware of knowledge beyond what you have learned here. … Yes, you can prepare for the adventure of death… The most important preparation is to see it as an adventure. … First, there is the adventure of dying. Then comes the adventure of death itself… a leaving of the body, the restoration of knowledge that you “left behind” for this earth trip. And the renewal of spiritual friendships that are more long-lasting than those of mere earth.” “The End Of One Adventure… ”   October 27, 1990
 
“Death is the end of an earth life, but not the end for the spirit. You have heard it said that those who have near death experiences are asked by a Being of Light and Love, “What have you done with your life?” The answer should not be a long string of accomplishments, even as service to others is a key reason for manifestation as life. The better response is, “I have lived life fully and joyously.” “Live Life Fully”   November 1, 1990
 
“You could live life more fully with more attention to prayer. … I know that you know Me to be in charge of this earth realm, and prayers are not meant to “change My mind,” but I do say that prayers are necessary for you to live life fully. As you pass on over you shall be more aware of why this is so.” “Live Life Fully”   November 1, 1990
 
““One day at a time” is a slogan of non-attachment. Live each day fully and put off destructive behaviors until tomorrow. When tomorrow comes live it as a today. And hence the good is magnified, and the bad tends to diminish.
When you make lists and try to prepare for some future be ever aware of how such planning affects the present. Know that I do not call you yet to live only in the present. That is one of the rewards of old age, and you are not yet there.” “The Task Ahead”   December 21, 1990
 
“Does equality require sameness? … Humans are not created equal, in any sense. Why? Because I planned for diversity in creation, in all species, including the human.” “The Power Of Affluence”   January 5, 1991
 
“The theme which I offer you today has, as its underlying theme, the message that the Lord’s song can be sung anywhere, in any key, in any tempo. You can be My servant anywhere, under any circumstances. You could serve Me as a dying martyr… or as one who lives on in slavery… The Lord’s song is a song of hope, or it may be a song of despair. Whatever the circumstances and whatever the rhythm and words, the song represents relationship with Me. It also incorporates a sense… to full knowledge… that life is for spiritual growth. … Sing the Lord’s song wherever you are, for place and circumstances are peripheral to this relationship. Know that when you sing the song that I have given you to sing that I sing along with you.” “Sing The Lord’s Song…”   January 13, 1991
 
“But what does grace do to the various standards for spiritual, religious, and “ideal” behavior? You observe that grace supercedes punishment for misdeeds and is a force against justice…
Oh, I can invoke justice. I can mete out punishment. I can hold to high standards. And I do function this way in some circumstances and with some people. But grace is My favorite way. Know that I can never be limited to any prescribed way of dealing with humans. I know you all too well. Never limit Me nor cease to be surprised at My ingenious actions.” “Grace Is THE Priority”   February 8, 1991
 
“You understand, as few in your culture do, that earth life is a strange amalgam of the tangible and the mystical, of free will and predestination. Most Americans, even most Christians, would be skeptical about what you are writing now… and about My rather direct role in your life. It seems so unlikely, and you seem so relatively “normal.” Why would you write that I, the Holy Spirit am a truly active partner in your life? Is this a strange delusion for an otherwise believable old man?” “Relax… and… Preach”   March 1, 1991
 
“It’s almost unique, this meditation of Ours … there’s not another meditation exactly like it. … This is simply and fundamentally a regular learning experience for your spirit. … Your spirit knows when it is time for a Teaching. … There is no question in your mind, with the experiences you have had over these nearly twelve years, that I shall fill three full pages. There is never any temptation to stop short. Also there is no sense that I need more than these three pages of your handwriting. In this sense I am liturgical. We have a liturgy, and We shall not vary it. If there is more to say about some subject or event I close with Selah, and there shall be another Teaching, at some time.” “A Special Meditation”   March 11, 1991
 
“Without the power of the Holy Spirit, which I do share with you, you could not accomplish what you do and be as you are. I want you to rejoice in that power. I want you to avail yourself of it. It is power to make better choices and judgments. It is power to carry through tasks that compete and edge on being onerous. And, importantly, it is power to forgive yourself for failures and tasks poorly done and opportunities missed… as I do.” “The Power of the Holy Spirit”   May 21, 1991
 
“Behaviors in and of themselves are not Christian or non-Christian. Any act can be a Christian act… or a blasphemous act. …
Let Me restate the conclusion. What does not proceed from a strong, continuing relationship with Me is sin. The acts may be good, even helpful to others. In the obvious sense they are good and should be commended. The sinner can behave wonderfully and perform commendable acts. Sin is spiritual not temporal. Sin is rejecting Me… living apart from Me… resisting My guidance. Be with Me and you can live freely. So says Paul… and so say I.” “A Christian Example”   June 2, 1991
 
“The Holy Scriptures tell of miracles that I have done in the earth. … Basically, miracles show forth the power of God over circumstances or over the physical earth I have created and maintain. And yet, miracles must be rather infrequent in order that the earth be the rather predictable place I want it to be. … Having some previous sense of what I am telling you now, you are reluctant to pray for a miraculous healing of your leg. You do want the function back. You are reluctant to go through the rest of your life with this disability. Yet you do not pray for a miracle, because you understand these are rare… and that I will heal your life if I wish to, irrespective of your prayers. You are not a good one with personal prayers, so how about this as a discipline: three prayers a day for the healing of your leg? For how long? Until it is unnecessary or until you change the prayer to something more worthy. If I can get you to pray three times a day that will be a small miracle!” “The Place Of Miracles”   August 4, 1991
 
“Yes, o son be more aware of life and spirit as it is manifested in life events. Each day there are many events and happenings that you can more fully appreciate. …
The sun is vital to your earth life. The Son is vital to your spiritual life. Be aware of the symbols that I offer to you. In the fullness of spiritual life there is much appreciation of symbols. Things are as they appear to be, and yet they can be much more. Life has many “layers”. Don’t be satisfied with just the obvious top layer.” “Be Aware Of Life”   October 2, 1991
 
“Yes, o son, you are aware of so little that is going on in the earth, even at this moment. Then I’ll hasten to say that you are better informed than most of your fellow humans… and certainly better informed because of My Teachings to you. I’ll say, yet again, that those volumes of Teachings behind you now are the best source of information, knowledge, and wisdom about you, the earth, My realms, and Me that is available, other than My Holy Scriptures. I do urge you yet again, to read and study these Scriptures, so that you know them better. They continue to be of great relevance to human life, and I want you to be a Christian who knows his heritage.” “A New Year’s Greeting”   January 2, 1992
 
“You are both a mortal human and an immortal soul, with eternal life. … This is your life rhythm.” “Another Day To Remember”   January 8, 1992
 
“First, hear a direct truth to which I have often alluded. Human beings are not equal in My sight. Yet there is equality in opportunity to please Me and get My attention. And, of course, each soul is on a spiritual path, evident or not, that leads back to Me or off on some tangent. Yet the inequality is not predictable by humans… even by interpretation of Holy Scripture. I have mercy when, where, how, and with whom I please.” “Eulogy For A Warrior”   February 1, 1992
 
“Methusaleh lived 969 years, and he died. I, as Jesus, lived 33 years, and I died. Which life was more significant? Death is simply a movement of spirit into some other realm, which may be more perfect than earth or less so, depending upon the needs of the soul in question. It may not be dependent just on the life just lived or on some portion of it, but on the needs of an everlasting spirit in a long-living soul.” “My Ways Area As The Sands…”   March 29, 1992
 
“The phrase that you like “… and I hope that I’m around so I can be here when I die” (yes, partial sentence) has much merit, for the dying process is one that you should live through, as fully as possible. A few folk do this very well, gently letting go of body and this form of life and going on to what is next for them. Hear again that this is the Easter message   life continues, with a Triune Lord who wants you to continue to develop toward enlightenment.” “The End Of An Earth Life”   April 17, 1992
 
“That is all interesting speculation and not really important to the Easter promise. Yet in a way it is. If you have accepted My grace and are committed to Me when your physical body ceases to function, suddenly or more slowly, consider this as the promise. Your spirit is freed from your body. You take time for a review of your life with Me, in “Paradise.” Then you have a chance to be with some you could influence who have not accepted Me, in some realm not so desirable. (You are now outside of time so there is much you can do in minutes, hours, and days of earth time.) You may return to the earth to observe those who mourn your loss. You many even be able to communicate with one or some, who need such assurance or who are open to it. …
Finally, you accept that your earth “time” is really over and you “ascend” to the place best for your development, with your hand still in Mine, for death cannot separate Us, and wherever you go I shall be. Consider this a serious speculation on what Easter says about life after death.” “The Easter Promise”   April 19, 1992
 
“I repeat again a fundamental truth about health: as physical health declines the health of spirit must increase. This can be so only if you almost cherish the experiences of ill-health and know how it feels to call on your spirit’s reserve to compensate. This means, of course, giving more attention to others than to yourself, really rejecting the temptation to feel sorry for yourself, turning instead to the needs of others. This is the secret of the fullest health to the end of your earth life.” “The Experience Of Health”   May 4, 1992
 
“Then your third point: have no fear of death. If your focus is on the body and the mind, then fear of death is natural and expected. Death is the end of these functions, without return. But for the spirit death is a freeing experience. It was such an experience even for young Peter, and it certainly was for Russ and your Uncle Emmett. It just is too bad that so many people aren’t ready for this freeing event. More importantly for life, however, is the truth that without fear of death you are much freer to love life and to expend your life for others and for Me. Fear does impede love. If you fear death you really fear Me and that prevents your acceptance of the love I offer, which prevents your loving others… and yourself… as fully as you could.” “Aging Gracefully”   May 10, 1992
 
“In one sense you have a positive addiction. You really can’t stay away for long without discomfort. And to what are you addicted? On what have you come to be dependent? I offer you understandable observations on every theme imaginable. I counsel you. I support you. I urge you to keep your life productive, serving others. I comment on experiences that you have, helping you appreciate these more, even those that seem presently unpleasant. I am your constant companion, internally and externally, and you know this.” “Do You Need Me, Really?”   September 1, 1992
 
“It is sad when evil seems to triumph. It is sad when a culture like yours opts for excessive luxuries instead of providing for the welfare of all children. And yet when I see faith truly tested, and when I see it develop as a result I can feel joy. There finally is ultimate reward for being faithful. This present earth life is not all there is, by any means.
You see, I want the spirit of rapture to be in every heart and soul. I want your spirit to be lifted up beyond the problems you experience, small to large. I want you to experience life fully here, expressing your feelings as they come. (I’m not really bothered by an occasional, “Oh shit!”) But I don’t want these feelings to drag your spirit down. …
So, be rapturous in relation to life. Be ready to leave this at any time… and, at the same time, be appreciative of all that you get to experience… joy AND sorrow. I see rapture thus. “The “Rapture”, Again”   October 30, 1992
 
“Many in your culture are basically strong and do live rather healthfully. Their medical needs are few, and they feel there should be some reward for such good health. They resent having to pay more, in insurance or taxes, for services needed by a relative few, who are not strong and/or who have unhealthy lifestyles. But is this not the “giving” that is one of My essentials for health? To give when the recipient is undeserving is more spiritually rewarding… even as it often does not seem to be. …
I say that you should see the physical health you enjoy as the blessing, the bonus, the reward, quite sufficient. You needn’t have any further benefit. You who are well should pay for those who have needs. It is costly for you, and not for the one suffering. It costs you to be healthy! And you should appreciate this interpretation, one that you did not expect.” “Health Is Costly?”   November 15, 1992
 
“Life itself is a blessing. Life, fundamentally, is spirit, and spirit originally came forth from Me, the Holy Spirit. That certainly entitles each life to be called blessed. There is a special blessing in earth life, even for those who seem to have little of what makes this life enjoyable, satisfying, and worthwhile. Each soul that enters a human body, before or just after birth, comes in with a blessing. …
The true blessedness of life, then, is in first accepting My blessing, consciously or unconsciously, and then showing this acceptance through service and commitment. Then, as life continues, you become a blessing to others, in some variety of ways. My blessing thus is multiplied by your life and actions, in the lives of others…” “The Blessedness Of Life”   November 23, 1992
 
“‘Tis the season to reflect on what the Christ Spirit means in your life. The birth was a beginning, and it is right to remember and celebrate it, but My presence has been eternal. The earth scene is a unique, peculiar one, purposely created so there would be controversies about Me and about all that appears to be created. You are spirit, in an everlasting soul, with many spiritual experiences, some triumphs, some relative failures.” “‘Tis The Season'”   December 13, 1992
 
“Grace is rather unique as a religious concept and a spiritual fact. All of the great spiritual traditions (and in some ways I have encouraged each one, in its development and practice) have recommended spiritual practices. You cannot be a good __________ unless you do __________ and do not do __________. Discipline, courage, sacrifice… all are required in order to be judged worthy. To live a selfless life (which, of course, I recommend) is a supreme goal, one that requires constant vigilance and much effort… and the attempt usually is ruined by this very effort.
… As Jesus I could only hint at the solution to this dilemma… and only John in his Gospel, included this attempt of Mine. Thus the 5th, 6th, and 7th chapters of Matthew are mystically balanced by the 14th, 15th, and 16th chapters of John.” “Grace   The Supreme “Balancer”   February 14, 1983
 
“I must admit, however, that the mystery of Holy Scripture, written about events 2,000 to 4,000 years back from the present, in being absolutely relevant to this time and culture, is, well, “spotty.” This means some of it is sharply relevant, much of it is somewhat relevant but needs interpretations, and some is, at best symbolic truth that needs much interpretation.” “A Day For Sermons”   June 6, 1993
 
“Be assured, also, that the crucial act of creation was not the body, or even the mind, but the infusion of an immortal soul, a part of Me, the Holy Spirit. This soul is what really completed the creation of the human, and most of those who appear to be human do have these essential souls, whose continuing existence is not finally dependent on the life of the body.” “Truth In The O.T.”   June 18, 1993
 
“In a secular sense death is final and absolute. The body dies and is disposed of. Legal rights cease. Some memories persist, while others fade. Yet in the reality of spirit death is merely a transition or a translation to a more familiar, easier life. It is not uncommon for elderly souls to come across with the observation “Why did I try to stay in the earth so long?” “Why didn’t I come across earlier?” Death presents you with knowledge and perceptions beyond what you’ve had in this earth life. Death is a return to a fullness of living that is possible only in moments in earth life.” “The Importance Of Death”   July 14, 1993
 
“The main regret I have about My Holy Scriptures is that I, as Jesus, am portrayed in such a serious, even doleful, way. More of the serious, chastising messages were remembered, rather than the joy I felt and displayed in My earth life. I truly enjoyed My time in the earth, in a good body, and yet not enough of that appreciation is expressed… or interpreted in this way.” “Spirit Plays”   July 17, 1993
 
“Enlightenment for you began with the fuller sense of My reality, as the Triune God. The chief feature of that Reality is Grace, that is offered, illogically, because of My death, as Jesus. Grace negates the law of karma… that you must answer for and pay for all of your sins and shortcomings. Grace is the positive gift. I have done it for you. …
Further, I have interpreted learnings that have persisted since your enlightenment, so that you have a view of life beyond that of most of your fellow Christians. You are enlightened to the fact that the you that is your immortal soul is on a long faith journey, in and out of time. This soul has had several forms and many experiences, but of these you can be only dimly aware. As this life ends you shall regain full awareness of your entire journey, and what still needs developing.” “Enlightenment… Or, In Other Words…”   August 26, 1993
 
“Achievement is never as important as being.” “A Spiritual Analysis”   September 10, 1993
 
“Did I, who created this earth in perfection, truly want disobedience, sin, struggle and pain, death, destruction, drunkenness, poor judgment, and diversity that overcomes cooperation. Sounds like it, doesn’t it?” “Reflections On Babel”   September 23, 1993
 
“You have rememorized that favorite, important Scriptural passage from Ecclesiastes… for everything there is a season… This should be something you can say, accurately and with feeling. This earth is a realm of seasons, and I want you to be aware of as many of these as possible. … My prescription is ever to be renewed: feel the joy in the life you lead and show it forth to both those you know, and those you don’t. With your eyes, your smile your gait, and your demeanor show forth the love you receive from Me… for love and faith in Me is a powerful force for healing and restoration. Focus on what you have rather on what is bothersome.” “Another Change Of Season”   October 15, 1993
 
“This earth is a real, tangible realm, but I am Mystical Spirit… I am waiting for spirits to turn from seeing life as only the realities of job, home, politics, money, and social position to at least glimpsing the true realities of spirit as the essential of human life.” “I Am Still Waiting… And Not Waiting”   December 4, 1993
 
“I also have told you often that this earth is a special realm for spiritual development, and many souls want to have this human-earth experience. I have allowed this to happen, for I see good growth coming from this crowded, human-dominated realm. It is a unique challenge to the spirit to come forth as a human baby, leaving behind knowledge and understanding of My ways and the ways of spirit “worlds.” It is especially challenging to grow up in a humanistic culture, which teaches that human life is most important and should dominate… or an atheistic culture that denies any reality beyond what can be defined by the physical senses.
…
The most typical reaction by one from your culture whose body dies and whose spirit “comes on over” is, “Why didn’t I realize truth when I was on the earth?” “How could I have forgotten, and never regained, this understanding?” “Space… And Spirits”   January 4, 1994″
 
“As you know, I see death as just a transition, from incarnated to fully spiritual life. It really makes very little difference, in your whole spiritual journey, when you die or under what conditions. What matters is how you live the life you have, and how close you come to Me in it.” “Some Comment On A Drama”   January 8, 1994
 
“So what do I tell you about self worth? It is much more related to what is called an “eastern concept,” that of self-realization. Fundamentally you are spirit, within a soul that is experiencing a variety of ways of growing and developing. Toward what? Toward return to Me, from whence “you” came.
Self realization says that you realize who you really are… a child of God.” “Self Worth”   January 21, 1994
 
“Faith is spiritual knowing that your life has purpose and direction, provided by Me, back toward Me.” “Faith… In A Postmodern World”   March 3, 1994
 
“Note, of course, that I have told you that in your present life as Bob Russell you have a spirit, which, originally, was a part of Me and, finally, will return to Me. This spirit is the unifying dimension of your health… that which achieves the best harmony with your body, mind, emotions, and social self. Your soul is the cumulative spirit, the accumulation of spiritual experiences you have had in other lives and realms. The soul is a kind of “consultant” to your spirit. A mature spirit is always in close communication with your soul, but a highly developed soul is not going to try to “take over” from your present spirit. If this relationship is not perfectly clear, just know that it is in the mystical realm and cannot be fully and accurately described with words.” “In the Valley… Fear No Evil”   March 30, 1994
 
“Angels are an active part of this earth scene, even as most humans don’t so believe and are not aware of their actions. I have told you repeatedly that this earth is a realm for special spiritual growth, so angel action must be limited. Angels know this, of course. Angels, by nature, are obedient and know the purposes of earth life very well. Each has powers she can use only occasionally and seldom with “full force.” And then I can say that earth life, for many people would be much more difficult and less rewarding than without angels.” “Angels… And Me”   July 29, 1994
 
“Yes, o son, spirit abounds… spirit is everywhere. I created this earth as a tangible realm… a place for many forms of life. I was, and am, the ultimate Creator, and because I am Pure Spirit, all of creation is imbued with spirit. … Earth life is so much fuller and fun when you’re aware of and appreciate spirit.” “Spirit Abounds”   December 10, 1994
 
“I’ll put it flatly   there is no human experience that cannot be a help to the growth and development of your spirit… Even experiences that are painful and lead to death can be such, for life continues in spiritual realms, with a chance to process what has happened in the human time.
Does this suggest that one ought to suffer various traumas, as these are the only way to a stronger spirit? No… this is too extreme and one-way. Yet as I’ve told you repeatedly, this earth scene is a special one, and, in this way, a “tough one.” All spirits don’t have this experience, even once. Many who do have it don’t progress much… some because life is too hard and some because it’s too easy.” “Some Comments On Jane”   February 3, 1995
 
“You are coming to see that there is, in earth life, the potential for experiencing the sacred in every life experience. Until you have this Truth (for it is one that merits the capital T) completely accepted the idea seems quite pollyannish, very “unappreciative of reality”. Every culture here in this tangible earth encourages this interpretation, and yours certainly does. And yet I stand at the door and knock, and when you let Me in you see how foolish it is to limit the sacred to certain religious experiences and those of a “mountain-top” nature. This is one of My realms, and therefore it is sacred.” “Invoking The Sacred”   October 9, 1995
 
“I am responsible, both directly and indirectly, for the life that is, the life that is coming in, and the life that is passing on out of this earth plane. You see, the death that is so often lamented and dealt with in a mournful way is of very little consequence. Whether it occurs at birth or 100 years as a human, it is just an episode in the life of your soul, a life which only occasionally is lived in the time dimension of the earth.” “Death… That Leads To Life”   June 4, 1996
 
“The orthodox Christian view of life is linear. An individual is conceived from two cells, and a body begins to grow. Importantly, a potentially immortal soul is in this developing embryo, a brand-new one, without any previous living experience… not “pre-owned”. The baby is born alive, usually, with spirit as an integral dimension of being, capable of development, like the other dimensions. Then comes earth life, and any spiritual development enriches this young soul.
…
At death there is judgment, as to your faith in Me, as the Triune God and as to your intentions and your actions in your earth life. Death is the end of that earth life, the only one you’ll ever have. Life goes on, with the soul, in heaven, if you are judged worthy, and in hell, if you are unworthy.
The Scriptures give no clear story of life beyond this, except that it continues for eternity. There is no promise of further growth and development. Your earth sojourn was your only chance. You just “are”, for the “rest of eternity”, in bliss or in misery.
…
Then I’ll say that, again for My reasons, I have wanted you to know the “circular story”. As you came into being you were not a brand-new soul. You have had previous earth experiences, as well as growth in other spirit realms. I, the Holy Spirit, am the Fount of all spirit. Spirit is energy. Energy can become matter. Life is growth, away from Me or back toward Me. When you have grown sufficiently your soul, which is the accumulated growth of spirit, voluntarily becomes part of My essence. From this comes forth new souls to begin what is, in one sense, a linear journey, and also is, finally a circular experience.” “Life Is Circular?!”   June 7, 1996
 
“One major difference between My perception of health and what is normative for your culture is in My concern primarily with spiritual health …
Spirit is vital, because it is your spirit that coordinates and balances the other, more traditional, dimensions of health. I tell you that your physical health is directly and constantly influenced, even determined, by your spirit. More obviously your emotions and your social interactions are healthier when your spirit is strong. And even your intellectual powers   learning, remembering, and applying knowledge   are in a better balance under the “supervision” of a mature spirit.
…
Health is pretty much as you define it: the quality of your functioning as a whole person and the quality of your adapting in a variety of situations…
What is the “purpose” of health? It is a means for you to have a wide variety of life experiences, from which spirit doth grow and develop.
…
Continue to take care of and nurture your body, but come to see this as the least important dimension of your health as you stride on into older age… even old age. As other dimensions wane, know that spirit can grow in all circumstances. And this, finally, is what health is.” “An Update On Health”   November 7, 1996
 
“I’ll tell you some ways in which I am “the same”. Despite some Biblical passages and incidents to the contrary, I am fundamentally Love. I love this earth realm, and I love all of the humans I have created. And I love all of the other forms of life that form the incredible web of interrelationships. Now one fundamental to these often conflicting Loves is that death is an integral part of this realm. Death is not a punishment. Death is just a change of scene. Death doesn’t diminish My Love for any soul, and the changes that shall come in the future, near and far, are all blessed ones, for I either cause or allow.” “Some Questions? Some Answers”   December 11, 1996
 
“… once a spirit is created out of Me, the Holy Spirit, it has eternal and everlasting life, some of which may be manifested in a physical body, here in the earth. That life continues in one realm or another (with earth a possibility) until that soul (the accumulation of spiritual growth… or regression) reaches enlightenment, which, in Christian terms means truly accepting grace. When such “happens” there is no more need for individuality, and the soul accepts this fully, so the soul “merges” back into Me.” “Reincar… Or, Better, Eternal Life”   January 5, 1997
 
“I have given life to the spirit that is your ongoing soul, and it can be taken back only by Me.” “Life And Death: A Revisit”   April 12, 1997
 
“The human body has life, and then no life. Yet true life is in the spirit, and this does not die with the body, though it may give up consciousness for a time. Spirit is the essence of any life, no matter what the culture says and no matter what the condition of the body. Spirit is of Me, and I am the Wellspring of life. … A life has value to the extent that spirit is the prime dimension. I want spirit to be manifested in what you do, and this makes for the growth and development of that spirit.” “The Value Of Life”   May 6, 1997
 
“The essence of life is spirit, and spirit is everlasting. I am Spirit, and I am everlasting. The purpose of spiritual life is to realize the many ways of relationship with Me, so that life can be lived fully, day by day.
One way to this fullness is through interactions with other humans. Another is interactions with Me, with the spirits of those who write, and with this place in the earth, in this good time.” “Half Way Through”   July 18, 1997
 
“As you move on to another realm after this earth life you shall have opportunities to help other souls, for you won’t all “be perfect”. But the closer you are to Me, Holy Spirit, in the latter part of this earth experience, the easier it will be to continue this relationship… on over. It is good to prepare well for what comes next.” “Some Thoughts About Health”   July 27, 1997
 
“For, at your age, you are also in transition out of this limited bodily life as Bob Russell… into a spirit realm where your perceptions of reality shall be ever-so-much wider and deeper than is possible now. … Oh, I realize that there is some merit in living this earth life very fully, with no thoughts for the life after bodily death. I’m simply suggesting that more focus on the spiritual as ultimate reality, rather than politics, economics, or social conditions … will make this eventual transition easier and more fun, whenever it happens.” “Some Thoughts On Transitions”   August 23, 1997
 
“… What if this were your last day on earth, as Bob Russell?
First, of course… Nothing would be more appropriate than tuning your spirit to Me, and hearing words of wisdom and advice.
…
Since it is a Sunday you should go to church and worship in a familiar place with a congregation of friends… Savor the whole experience of worship on a Sunday morning in summer.
…
Conversation… contemplation… appreciation… these are the ways I recommend spending days on earth, your last or just one of many more.
…
Cut some grass and feel the life in your body, including the sweat that exertion produces on a summer afternoon. Fertilize the roses, even if you were to see no more blooms. Cut down a tree. Plant another one, symbolizing that life replaces life. Feed your animals, and appreciate the life they have.
…
Watch some football, if the teams are “appealing”, remembering how participation in that game enriched your young life, directly and indirectly, and how coaching others to play well was a “giving-back” process.
…
Listen to and appreciate some music, for music is part of every realm I have created.
…
Consider the balances between activity and rest… between interactions with others and contemplation, with Me as your Guide… between being responsible and taking time to be irresponsible, in your culture’s terms.
…
Now that I have given you some directions for the “spending” of a “last day”, let this be a guide to any and every day that you shall live this earth life.
“If This Were Your Last Day…”   August 31, 1997
 
“My message to and through you is that this earth experience is an important and a unique one. Live each day in joy. Enjoy every task… that you devise or that is given to you. Try to see nothing as onerous or not worthy of your best. Also just take time to be. You need not always be accomplishing. Relate well to and with others. Keep in constant contact with Me. Don’t judge the quality of your life on what you have or don’t have.
My fundamental prescription comes in two powerful words: AWARENESS and APPRECIATION. Be aware of the goodness of the life you have, even in hard times. Appreciate what you have, what you can do and what other do for you. Be aware of and appreciate spirit as the most important dimension of health.” “If Hard Times Come…”   September 20, 1997
 
“As the Gospel of Mark has Me, as Jesus, saying… real sin is in attitude… “from the heart”… rather than acts solely. Actually a feeling of genuine independence from Me is genuine sin.” “Some More On Sin…”   October 4, 1997
 
“Spirit is the essence of life. It certainly isn’t as tangible as the body, but the body’s life is certainly more limited than that of spirit. The body is affected by spirit, which can be a lengthening or a shortening factor. … Mind is not as tangible as body, though mind is certainly rather directly related to the physical organ, the brain. Brain action is basic, but mind goes beyond the brain, some of this measurable and some not. Mind and spirit “overlap”, so that some of what you think and remember is predictable, but some is quite mystical, a product of spirit.
Spirituality can be experienced in three basic ways (with innumerable combinations of these as possible, even normative). Your spirit can be moved, and nurtured, with bodily, sensual experiences. … Then there are perceptions, thoughts, and ideas that can affect spirit. … And, finally, spirituality can be a bit… to totally, mystical. Spirit is not tangible, and therefore it can be affected by other spirits and by the spiritual nature of “all there is”.
Spirituality is, finally, being more and more like Me. I am Holy, but I’m also quite “around” in this earth scene.” “Spirituality? Spirituality!”   January 28, 1998
 
“What is progress… to Me? It is movement toward seeing all life events… as either being fundamentally, even totally, spiritual or having a definite spiritual component. It is movement toward Both/And thinking and For everything there is a season…
Progress… to Me also is looking toward the greater (much greater) spirit realms, increasingly as you age. … I want you to remember the description by your old professor Spiegelberg of Hindu holy men who were quite productive in their post-samadhi years on earth, but with nary a concern about the quality of what they did. They did it for Me, and therefore it was the best.” “What is Progress… To Me?”   April 28, 1998
 
“Well, remember always that My basic premise is that life is spiritual, with the physical super-imposed upon it for a time. (And… time is included in this: in the earth realm there is time, but in the realms of spirit there is no time.) So, birth… and conception and intrauterine life before it… is a transition for spirit   into a physical presence and into a realm of time. … Whatever the physical life situation, it is an opportunity for spirit to grow, develop, mature… back toward Me, the Source of all spirit.
One unique feature of this earth experience is the opportunity not to grow… or even to lose spiritual power, rather than to profit from it.”  Health = Be Faithful! “Health= Be Faithful!”   August 24, 1999
 
“Hear Me, yet again, as I tell you that the essence of life is spirit, and the only real assessment and judgment will be   what has happened to your spirit in this life… and, mainly, how has it grown and developed? That’s really all that this earth portion of life is about, but, as you live it it seems so much more complex. I realize that you are a well-educated American, and this is hard to “counter”. There is so much that seems “real”, which doesn’t seem consistent with what I tell you. But you have this “window”, and I say, “Open it… wider!”   “Window To “Spirit”   May 4, 2000
 
“Rather than “trying” excessively and compulsively for new and exciting experiences, let your motivations be toward awareness and appreciation of all that life is, even the ordinary, presumably unexciting times and events.” “An ‘Odd Time'”   June 12, 2000
 
“As I have told you often, the earth is quite a special realm for spiritual development… because there is “competition” from the physical body, the physical environment, and from the diversity of life, including human. I have created all of this. I control some of it, some of the time. I let some of “it” function as it will, some of the time. If I wasn’t the Triune God I would be very frustrated with both some of the processes and some of the results. But, remember, I have been “doing this” outside of time AND “for a long time.”   “How Do I See The Earth… Really?”   August 9, 2000
